ZORK I: The Great Underground Empire - A Tale of Whimsy and Peril   Infocom
interactive fiction - a fantasy story spun with the threads of the arcane
Copyright (c) 1981, 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986 Infocom, Inc. All rights
reserved.   ZORK is a registered trademark of Infocom, Inc., purveyors of fine
adventures.   Release 119 / Serial number 880429    West of House   Here you
find yourself, a bold adventurer, in an open field west of a white house, its
front door boarded as if to say, "Keep out! Or enter if you dare." The air is
filled with the scent of mystery and the unknown.   Beside you, a small mailbox
stands sentinel, guarding its contents against the prying eyes of the world.

>get all
small mailbox: Ah, an ambitious soul you are, aiming to claim all before you as
your own! Alas, this steadfast sentinel of correspondence is securely anchored,
defying even the mightiest of efforts to uproot it from its hallowed spot.

>examine all
white house: Behold, a magnificent colonial abode, its walls bathed in the
purest of whites, standing as a testament to the opulence of its erstwhile
inhabitants. One can't help but wonder if its corridors echo with the whispers
of untold wealth and secrets.  board: These boards, steadfast in their duty, are
clamped down with the tenacity of a dragon guarding its hoard. A testament to
the carpenter's craft, they defy any attempt to pry them loose without invoking
the wrath of splinters.  forest: At first glance, the forest seems like any
other - a collection of trees, underbrush, and the occasional squirrel. But who
knows what mysteries lurk under its canopy? To the untrained eye, nothing
special; to the adventurer, a verdant realm of possibility.

>scan the horizon
Ah, "scan" is a term that eludes my vast lexicon. If you're seeking to gaze upon
the distant lands, might I suggest you "look around" or specify what you wish to
examine? The horizon, while vast and intriguing, may hold secrets only revealed
through more precise inquiries.

>look at the horizon
The word "horizon" seems to be a bit beyond my understanding, but if you're
looking to survey your surroundings, you might try "look around" or specify a
direction to explore. The world of Zork is vast and filled with wonders both
near and far, and sometimes the secrets it holds are best discovered by focusing
on the immediate rather than the distant.

>se
South of House   Here you stand, at the southern facade of the white house,
where doors seem to fear to tread and windows dare not peek into the world
unguarded. Alas, every pane is boarded, as if the house itself is bracing
against the whispers of secrets it refuses to share. No entry beckons here, no
sliver of light to guide your way.

>rap against the walls of the house
Ah, the word "against" seems to have tripped me up, but if you're looking to
interact with the house's walls, perhaps you might try "knock on house" or "tap
wall." The walls of this house, steeped in mystery and silence, may yet hold
secrets or simply stand mute, guardians of their own solitude.

>knock on house
Ah, to knock upon the walls of the white house, you do! A bold move, indeed. The
house, with its air of mystery and boarded windows, seems to pause, as if
contemplating the audacity of such an action. Yet, no sound returns save for the
echo of your own rap against the solid facade. It appears the house, or whatever
secrets it harbors, opts to remain silent for now.

>e
Behind House   Here you find yourself at the rear of the white house, where
secrets and shadows mingle. A path, like a whisper, beckons you into the embrace
of the forest to the east. Tucked away in a forgotten corner of the house, a
small window winks at you, slightly ajar - a silent invitation or a sly
challenge? The choice, as always, is yours to make.

>open the window
Summoning all your might, and perhaps a bit of cunning you didn't know you had,
you manage to coax the window open just enough. It's as if the house itself
sighs, relenting to your determination, granting passage into its hidden depths.
The gap, now wide enough to admit an intrepid explorer, whispers of secrets and
stories waiting within.

>enter the house
Kitchen   Venturing through the window with the grace of a cat (or perhaps a
slightly less graceful creature), you find yourself in the kitchen of the white
house. The air is thick with the ghosts of meals past, a table set as if the
occupants vanished mid-preparation. To the west, a passage whispers of
mysteries, while a dark staircase invites you upwards with a silent promise of
secrets. A chimney, dark as a moonless night, leads down, and the small window
through which you entered gazes eastward, a silent witness to your intrusion.
Upon the table, a bottle stands sentinel, its contents a simple, life-giving
water. Beside it, an elongated brown sack exudes the tantalizing aroma of hot
peppers, hinting at culinary adventures untold.

>smell the air
Inhaling deeply, you're greeted by the scent of adventure, mingled with the
faintest hint of mystery and the unmistakable aroma of meals past. It's as if
the air itself is charged with tales untold, whispering secrets of the house's
history with every breath you take.

>touch the ceiling
Reaching upwards in an attempt to graze the ceiling with your fingertips, you
find the concept of "ceiling" to be somewhat elusive in this context. Perhaps
the essence of what you seek lies not in the touch, but in the exploration of
the space around you. Might I suggest examining the room or its contents for a
more tactile experience? The mysteries of this place are often hidden in plain
sight, awaiting the keen eye of an intrepid explorer.

>bite your nails
In a moment of introspection, you contemplate the age-old habit of nail-biting,
perhaps as a means to soothe your nerves amidst the mysteries that surround you.
However, you quickly realize that such actions, though comforting, do little to
aid in your quest. Your adventure calls for actions of a grander scale, ones
that involve exploring the world around you rather than the ends of your
fingers.

>get all
glass bottle: With a flourish worthy of a seasoned adventurer, you deftly scoop
up the glass bottle. Ah, the stories it could tell if only it could speak.
brown sack: The brown sack, redolent with the spicy aroma of adventures yet to
come, now finds itself in your possession. What mysteries might it conceal
within its depths?

>examine all
kitchen window: Peering through the open kitchen window, you're met with the
tantalizing mystery of the unknown. What lies beyond is a riddle wrapped in an
enigma, obscured by the veil of adventure.  chimney: The chimney, a vertical
passage shrouded in shadow, beckons you downward. It appears climbable,
promising either peril or discovery to those brave enough to traverse its
depths.  stairs: At first glance, the stairs might seem mundane, a simple
architectural feature. But in a house such as this, who can say what ordinary
steps might lead to? Perhaps they're just stairs... or perhaps they're a silent
invitation to ascend into the unknown.

>d
Ah, the descent! While traditionally reserved for the likes of Santa Claus, your
adventurous spirit seems to beckon you towards a chimney-bound journey. Yet, the
chimney, with its dark and sooty embrace, whispers tales of caution. Are you
prepared to tread where only festive legends dare, or does your destiny lie
along a less soot-strewn path?

>d
Ah, to descend like Santa Claus, a bold ambition indeed! Yet, the chimney, with
its shadowy depths and sooty secrets, seems to chuckle at the notion. It's not
every day that one embarks on such a yuletide journey without a sleigh or
reindeer in tow. Perhaps there's another path that calls to your adventurous
heart, one less traveled by mythical gift-givers.

>u
Ah, you've ascended into the realm of shadows, where light dares not tread. It's
pitch black, a darkness so profound it seems to swallow sound itself. Beware,
for this is the domain of the grue, creatures that lurk in the gloom with an
appetite for adventurers. A word to the wise: without light, one's fate may
quickly become a snack for these unseen menaces.

>d
Descending from the shadows, you find yourself back in the kitchen, where the
air is thick with the scent of mysteries yet to be cooked up. The familiar
surroundings beckon you to explore further, perhaps to uncover what secrets lie
hidden in the nooks and crannies of this culinary domain.

>rifle through the cupboards
Ah, the term "rifle" seems to have eluded my vast vocabulary. If you're looking
to explore the contents of the cupboards with keen interest, perhaps you might
try "search cupboards" or "examine cupboards." The mysteries of the kitchen
await your keen eye, and who knows what secrets or treasures you might uncover
within its confines?

>w
Living Room   Stepping westward, you find yourself enveloped by the cozy yet
mysterious ambiance of the living room. To the east, a doorway whispers of past
passages, while to the west, a wooden door adorned with strange gothic lettering
stands defiantly nailed shut, as if guarding secrets too profound or perilous
for the world beyond. The room's heart is dominated by a large oriental rug,
lying like a silent guardian over the floor's secrets.   Perched above the
trophy case, an elvish sword of great antiquity glimmers with a light that seems
almost... otherworldly, its edges telling tales of battles long forgotten.
Resting atop the trophy case, a battery-powered brass lantern waits, its glow
promising illumination and perhaps, a bit of hope, in the darker corners of this
adventure.

>examine all
stairs: At first glance, these stairs might seem as ordinary as any other set
you've encountered on your travels. But in a world where the mundane can often
mask the magical, who's to say what mysteries ascend with each step? Perhaps
they're just a means to an end, or perhaps they're a silent guardian to realms
untold.

>examine the door
Upon closer inspection, the door before you is a masterpiece of contradiction,
its surface adorned with engravings that seem to dance and twist in the light.
The script, ancient and enigmatic, finally yields its secret upon your
persistent gaze: "This space intentionally left blank." A puzzling statement,
indeed! It's as if the door itself is winking at you, a silent jest from ages
past, challenging you to uncover the truth behind its wooden facade.

>get all
sword: With a flourish that would make any swashbuckler proud, you claim the
elvish sword of great antiquity. Its blade sings a silent song of battles long
past.  brass lantern: The brass lantern, a beacon of hope in the darkest of
times, now finds itself in your possession. Its glow promises to pierce the veil
of shadows that may lie ahead.  carpet: You attempt to lift the large oriental
rug, only to find it as immovable as the mountains themselves. It seems this
piece of decor harbors secrets too weighty to simply be carried away.  trophy
case: The trophy case, a silent guardian of victories and vanquished foes,
remains steadfastly anchored to the wall. It appears that some treasures are
meant to be admired, not acquired.

>examine the carpet
Upon closer inspection, the carpet underfoot, while seemingly ordinary at a
glance, whispers tales of distant lands and ancient craftsmanship. Its fibers,
woven with care and precision, hint at stories untold, perhaps concealing more
than meets the eye. Though it may not reveal its secrets easily, the very weight
that anchors it suggests it guards its mysteries well.

>move carpet
Summoning all your strength and perhaps a bit of cunning, you manage to heave
the rug aside, as if unveiling a secret kept for ages. Beneath its once
steadfast guard lies a trap door, cloaked in dust and mystery. It's as if the
room itself exhales a long-held breath, revealing a path downward that whispers
of untold adventures and hidden depths. What lies beneath, only the bravest of
souls dare to discover.

>open the trap door
With a creak that seems to protest the intrusion, the trap door yields under
your persistent efforts, revealing a staircase that spirals into the unknown.
Each step, worn and rickety, beckons you into a darkness that swallows light
whole. It's as if the shadows themselves are alive, whispering tales of
forgotten realms and adventures yet to be had. What secrets lie at the bottom,
shrouded in the velvety embrace of the dark, is a mystery only the daring or the
foolish would seek to unravel.

>e
Stepping eastward with the grace of a seasoned explorer, you find yourself back
in the kitchen, where the air is thick with the aroma of mysteries yet to be
uncovered. The familiar surroundings seem to whisper of secrets hidden in plain
sight, urging you to look closer, to delve deeper into the heart of this
culinary domain. What tales might the pots and pans tell if they could speak?
Only time, and perhaps a bit of daring, will reveal the truths concealed within
these walls.

>u
Ascending with the boldness of an adventurer whose heart beats in tune with the
unknown, you find yourself enveloped by an all-consuming darkness. It's as if
you've stepped into a realm where light itself fears to tread. Beware, for
whispers in the shadows hint at the presence of a grue, a creature that thrives
in the pitch black, eagerly awaiting those who dare to wander without a light.
Your courage is commendable, but even the bravest souls must tread lightly here,
lest they become a midnight snack for unseen jaws.

>turn on the lamp
With a flick and a whisper, the brass lantern springs to life, banishing the
shadows with its warm, golden glow.  Attic   You've ascended to the attic, a
realm of forgotten memories and dust-covered secrets. The only path retreats
down the stairway from whence you came. In the corner, a large coil of rope lies
coiled like a sleeping serpent, promising utility or perhaps adventure. On a
table, a nasty-looking knife glints ominously under the lantern's light, its
edge whispering tales of danger and daring. What stories do these relics hold,
and what mysteries await in the shadows now dispelled by your light?

>get all
With the deftness of a seasoned adventurer, you gather your newfound treasures.
rope: Swiftly, you claim the coil of rope, its length whispering promises of
ascents into the unknown and descents into the depths of mystery.  nasty knife:
The knife, with its blade that tells tales of peril and survival, now finds a
new home among your possessions. Its edge, as menacing as ever, seems to gleam
with a newfound purpose under your command.   Together, they are but tools in
the grand tapestry of adventure that awaits, each with a story yet to be woven
into your journey.

>d
Descending from the attic's shadowy secrets, you find yourself once again in the
kitchen, where the air is thick with the aroma of mysteries yet to be uncovered.
The familiar surroundings seem to welcome you back, a silent witness to the
treasures now in your possession. What tales might the pots and pans tell if
they could speak of your adventures above? Only the echoes of your footsteps
know the truth of the journey you've undertaken.

>w
Stepping westward with the confidence of an explorer who has seen the mysteries
that lie in the dark and returned to tell the tale, you find yourself back in
the living room. The room greets you like an old friend, its familiar corners
and shadows now seeming almost welcoming in the light of your recent adventures.
The trophy case, the oriental rug, and even the mysterious door with gothic
lettering all seem to hold their breath, awaiting your next move in this grand
game of discovery and danger.

>d
As you descend, the trap door above you slams shut with a finality that echoes
through the shadows, followed by the unmistakable sound of it being barred from
the other side. You find yourself in the cellar, a place where the air is thick
with the scent of forgotten things and the damp embrace of the earth.  Cellar
Here, in the gloom, you stand in a dark and damp cellar, its air heavy with the
whispers of secrets long buried. A narrow passageway stretches north, promising
mystery, while a crawlway to the south beckons with the allure of hidden paths.
To the west, the bottom of a steep metal ramp rises like a challenge, its
surface too slick to climb.  In this realm of shadows, your sword begins to glow
with a faint blue light, a silent guardian against the unseen. What tales does
this glow hint at, and what creatures lurk in the darkness that would cause such
a reaction? The adventure deepens, and the cellar awaits your exploration.

>smell the air
Inhaling deeply, you're greeted not just by a blast of air, but by the rich
tapestry of scents that only a place steeped in mystery could exude. The damp
earthiness of the cellar mingles with the faint, almost forgotten smell of old
adventures and secrets buried deep beneath the surface. It's as if the very air
is laden with tales of yore, whispering to you of hidden dangers and treasures
waiting in the shadows.

>dance a little jig
In the dim light of the cellar, amidst the whispers of ancient secrets and the
faint blue glow of your sword, you feel a sudden urge to lighten the mood.
Though the word "dance" might not be in my vast vocabulary, the spirit of
adventure certainly understands the whimsy of a jig. For a brief moment, the
shadows seem to dance with you, caught up in your display of defiance against
the darkness. Yet, as the last step echoes in the damp air, the solemn silence
of the cellar returns, reminding you of the mysteries that await.

>hello sailor
As you call out "hello sailor" into the enveloping darkness, the words seem to
hang in the air for a moment, as if waiting for an unseen audience to applaud.
Alas, the only response is the echo of your own voice, bouncing off the ancient
walls, a reminder that here, in the depths of adventure, you are the sailor
navigating uncharted waters. The cellar, with its secrets and shadows, offers no
reply, save for the silent promise of mysteries yet to be uncovered.

>