ZORK I: The Great Underground Empire
Infocom interactive fiction - a fantasy story
Copyright (c) 1981, 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986 Infocom, Inc. All rights reserved.
ZORK is a registered trademark of Infocom, Inc.
Release 119 / Serial number 880429

West of House
In the midst of a sprawling field, kissed by the sun's golden rays, you find 
yourself standing west of an enigmatic white house. Its front door, a mystery 
in itself, is securely boarded up, as if to keep prying eyes at bay. Nearby, 
a quaint mailbox stands sentinel, hinting at secrets waiting to be uncovered.

>examine the mailbox
The small mailbox, painted a fading shade of red, stands closed. Its lid
appears untouched by time, hinting at the possibility of hidden messages or
secrets lying within, just waiting to be discovered.

>examine the field
The expansive field stretches out around you, a sea of green that whispers
secrets of adventure with every rustle of its grassy waves. While the details
of the field itself might seem mundane at first glance, it's the promise of
what lies beyond that stirs the spirit of exploration within you. Perhaps it's
not the field itself that holds the key, but where it can lead you. Consider
exploring the surroundings or examining specific landmarks you encounter.

>chew your nails
As you absentmindedly bring your fingers to your mouth, a sense of adventure
stirs within you, reminding you that there are mysteries to solve and
treasures to find in the Great Underground Empire. Perhaps it's best to focus
on the quest at hand, rather than the state of your nails. 

>go southeast
South of House As you venture southeast, the mysterious white house looms
larger, presenting its southern facade to you. No welcoming door invites you
in, and the windows, sealed with boards, keep their secrets hidden from prying
eyes. The air is thick with the scent of mystery, suggesting that the house
guards its tales jealously. What stories could lie within, and how might one
uncover them?

>e
Behind House Stepping cautiously to the east, you find yourself at the back of
the white house. The area is quiet, save for the gentle rustling of leaves as
a path snakes its way into the dense forest beyond. Tucked away in a secluded
corner of the house, a small window catches your eye, slightly ajar as if left
that way in haste or secrecy. It whispers of untold stories and hidden rooms,
inviting the brave to discover what lies beyond its pane.

>open the window
Summoning all your determination, you grip the edges of the window with both
hands. With a concerted effort that speaks to your resolve, you manage to pry
it open just wide enough. The window now stands as an unspoken invitation to
the mysteries that lie within the house, beckoning you to step into a world of
hidden secrets and silent tales waiting to be told.

>rap the side of the house
With a sense of curiosity, you tap rhythmically against the house, half-
expecting a secret passage to reveal itself or an echo of hidden chambers to
answer back. However, the solid walls of the white house merely return a dull
thud, keeping their secrets well-guarded. It seems the house is not ready to
divulge its mysteries so easily. Perhaps there are other ways to uncover the
secrets it holds.

>enter the house
Kitchen Stepping through the window with a sense of anticipation, you find
yourself in the kitchen of the mysterious white house. The room tells a story
of recent use; a table stands at its center, bearing the marks of food
preparation. Shadows dance at the edges of your vision, cast by the dim light
filtering through the open window. To the west, a narrow passage beckons,
while a dark, foreboding staircase invites you to explore the mysteries that
lie above. The whisper of adventure calls from the dark chimney that leads
downward. On the table, a glass bottle catches the light, its contents a
clear, refreshing water. Beside it, an elongated brown sack exudes the
tantalizing aroma of hot peppers, promising a taste of the exotic. What
secrets do these ordinary objects hold, and what stories could they tell of
the house's inhabitants?

>get all
With a swift motion, you gather the treasures before you. The glass bottle,
cool to the touch and filled with water that promises refreshment, is now
securely in your grasp. Next, you claim the brown sack, its exterior rough
against your fingers, the scent of hot peppers wafting up to tease your
senses. Both items, each with their own story and potential, are now yours to
explore and utilize in the adventure that lies ahead.

>u
Ascending the creaking staircase, you find yourself enveloped in an oppressive
darkness, the kind that seems to swallow sound and hope alike. A chill runs
down your spine as you realize you're not alone; the legendary grue, a
creature that thrives in the pitch black, lurks nearby, its presence almost
palpable. You remember the tales, whispered of creatures that feast on the
unwary in the absence of light. It's a race against time to find a source of
illumination before you become the next victim of the grue's insatiable
hunger.

>d
With a sense of urgency, you retrace your steps down the creaking staircase,
escaping the suffocating darkness above. Your feet find familiar ground in the
kitchen of the white house, the dim light from the window offering a
comforting contrast to the shadows you've just fled. The room, with its tales
of recent meals and the adventures that await just beyond its walls, welcomes
you back like an old friend. 

>d
With a spark of daring, you glance towards the chimney, contemplating an
adventure that even Santa might envy. However, the narrow, soot-covered
passage seems to whisper warnings of its own, suggesting that some routes are
best left to the legends. Perhaps there are other paths to explore, ones that
don't require a red suit and a team of reindeer.

>w
Living Room Stepping westward, you enter the heart of the house: the living
room. It's a space that whispers tales of the past, with a doorway leading
back east, and a mysterious wooden door to the west, its surface etched with
strange gothic lettering and firmly nailed shut, as if to keep something in...
or out. The room's centerpiece, a large oriental rug, lies beneath your feet,
adding a touch of the exotic to the mystery. A trophy case against one wall
catches your eye, its contents a testament to adventures of yore. Suspended
above it, an elvish sword of great antiquity gleams in the dim light, its
blade promising both beauty and danger. Resting atop the trophy case, a
battery-powered brass lantern waits, its potential to light the way through
darker mysteries readily apparent.

>get all
With a sense of purpose, you swiftly gather the treasures before you. The
elvish sword, its blade shimmering with an ancient light, feels balanced and
true in your graspâ€”a relic of a bygone era now entrusted to you. Next, the
brass lantern, its weight reassuring in your hand, promises to be a beacon in
the darkest of places. You eye the large oriental rug and the trophy case,
contemplating their potential. Alas, the rug proves too cumbersome to lift, a
silent guardian of the floor's secrets, while the trophy case, anchored firmly
to the wall, stands as a testament to adventures past, its contents just out
of reach.

>move rug
Summoning all your strength, you grasp the edges of the oriental rug and heave
it aside, muscles straining with the effort. As the rug slides across the
wooden floor, a cloud of dust rises into the air, sparkling in the dim light
like tiny stars. Beneath where the rug once lay, you uncover the hidden
entrance to a world below: a trap door, closed and covered in dust, as if it
hasn't been opened for ages. What secrets and adventures await beneath this
threshold, hidden from the eyes of those who walk above?

>open door
In the room, two doors stand as guardians of their own mysteries. The wooden
door, its surface etched with gothic lettering, seems to whisper tales of the
unknown, while the trap door, now revealed beneath the rug, silently beckons
you to explore the secrets that lie beneath. 

>examine the wooden door
As you lean in closer, the gothic lettering on the wooden door comes into
focus, each character intricately carved as if by the hand of an ancient
craftsman. The engravings, mysterious and alluring, seem to hold a message
from the past. After a moment of study, you decipher the words: "This space
intentionally left blank." A puzzling phrase, indeed. It leaves you wondering
about the door's creators and the irony of their message, etched so
permanently into this gateway of secrets. What could they have meant by such a
curious statement, and what mysteries does the door itself conceal?

>open the trap door
With a determined push, you coax the trap door open, its hinges groaning in
protest as if guarding the secrets below for ages. Before you, a rickety
staircase winds down into an enveloping darkness, each step a whisper of the
countless adventures and mysteries that have traversed its path. The air grows
cooler as the promise of the unknown beckons you forward. 

>e
Turning eastward, you find yourself back in the kitchen of the white house.
The familiar sights of the recently used table and the small window, now a
comforting beacon of light, greet you. The room, with its lingering scents of
meals past and the promise of the adventures that lie beyond its walls, serves
as a crossroads on your journey. 

>turn on the lamp
With a flick of the switch, the brass lantern comes to life, casting a warm,
golden glow that pierces the surrounding darkness. Its light, steady and
reassuring, promises to be a faithful companion on your journey through the
shadowy corners of the Great Underground Empire.

>u
Ascending the creaky staircase with the brass lantern casting shadows on the
walls, you emerge into the attic, a place of forgotten memories and hidden
treasures. The air is thick with dust, and the only path retreats back down
the stairs from whence you came. In the corner, a large coil of rope promises
utility and adventure, while on a weathered table lies a knife, its blade
gleaming menacingly in the lantern's light. 

>get all
With a sense of purpose, you quickly gather the items scattered around the
attic. The rope, sturdy and reliable, feels like a promise of safety and
adventure in your hands. Next, you cautiously pick up the knife, its blade
catching the light with a sinister gleam. Though its appearance is daunting,
you sense it may prove invaluable in the challenges that lie ahead. Both
items, now in your possession, are ready to assist you as you delve deeper
into the mysteries of the Great Underground Empire.

>