ZORK I: The Great Underground Empire - A Tale of Wit, Whimsy, and Woe
Infocom interactive fiction - a fantasy story spun with the threads of dreams
and the occasional nightmare.
Copyright (c) 1981, 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986 Infocom, Inc. All rights
reserved, including the right to perform a magic spell.
ZORK is a registered trademark of Infocom, Inc., and a whispered word of power
in certain shadowy circles.
Release 119 / Serial number 880429 - A number that may or may not unlock the
secrets of the universe.

West of House, Where Adventure Beckons
You find yourself standing in an open field west of a white house, which,
despite its inviting color, has a front door that's as welcoming as a dragon's
maw, thanks to the boards nailed across it. Nearby, a small mailbox stands
sentinel, possibly harboring secrets or at least a few bills.

>x house
The house stands as a testament to colonial elegance, its white paint gleaming
in the sunlight like a beacon of wealth and mystery. The architecture suggests
that its owners, undoubtedly a lineage of considerable affluence, spared no
expense in its design. However, the boarded front door whispers tales of long-
gone glory, hinting at secrets lying dormant within its walls.

>open mailbox
With a creak that suggests it hasn't seen action since the days when knights
were bold and dragons were, frankly, a nuisance, the small mailbox swings open
to reveal a solitary leaflet, lying as if it's been waiting just for you to
discover its secrets.

>read leaflet
(Taken)
"Ah, you've discovered our humble welcome note! 'WELCOME TO ZORK!'

This isn't just any ordinary adventure you've stumbled upon, oh no. It's a
journey of wit, peril, and the kind of cunning that would make a fox say, 'Well,
that's a bit much, isn't it?' Here, you'll traverse lands so breathtaking, even
the most seasoned explorers would give their last compass to see them. Remember,
every adventurer worth their salt keeps this leaflet close. It's not just a
guide; it's a key to the wonders beneath your feet."

>x forest
The forest stretches out like a verdant sea, its canopy a patchwork quilt of
greens and browns. Ancient trees stand as silent sentinels, their trunks gnarled
and twisted by the passage of countless years. A chorus of unseen creatures
serenades you from the underbrush, their songs weaving a tapestry of mystery and
allure. Though it may seem at first glance to be just an ordinary forest, who
knows what secrets lie hidden beneath its leafy boughs?

>se
South of House:
As you venture to the south side of the white house, you find yourself gazing
upon its neglected facade. No welcoming door invites you in here, and the
windows, as if to guard the house's secrets, are all firmly boarded up. It seems
the house whispers tales of days gone by, yet remains stubbornly silent on how
one might gain entry.

>e
Behind House:
You find yourself at the rear of the white house, where secrets and mysteries
might just be a window away. A path, looking as inviting as a siren's call,
snakes into the forest to the east, promising adventure or perhaps misadventure.
In one corner, almost hidden as if by an afterthought, there's a small window,
slightly ajar, whispering tales of the unknown. It seems to beckon you closer,
suggesting that not all entrances need be doors.

>x window
The window teases you with its slightly ajar stance, a sliver of darkness
beckoning from beyond. Alas, it's not open wide enough to permit your
adventurous form to slip through. It whispers of mysteries just beyond reach, if
only you could persuade it further.

>open window
Summoning the strength of a thousand ancestors and with a finesse that would
make a cat burglar proud, you manage to pry the window open just wide enough to
slip through. The world beyond beckons, shrouded in mystery and the faint scent
of adventure.

>nw
North of House:
You find yourself gazing upon the north side of the white house, where not a
single door invites entry, and all the windows stand as stoic guardians, boarded
up against the world. To the north, a narrow path meanders through the trees,
whispering secrets of adventures yet to be discovered.

>n
Forest Path:
You find yourself on a serpentine path that meanders through a forest shrouded
in twilight mystery. The path stretches both to the north and south, as if
inviting you to explore the secrets that lie in either direction. To the side, a
majestic tree, its branches reaching out like the arms of an old friend, stands
sentinel. Its low branches seem almost beckon you closer, whispering of hidden
tales and adventures.

>climb tree
Up a Tree:
Perched precariously about 10 feet above the ground, you find yourself nestled
among the sturdy arms of large branches, which seem to cradle you like a mother
does a child, albeit a slightly uncomfortable and wooden child. Just out of
reach, the next branch taunts you with its aloofness. Beside you, a small bird's
nest cradles a marvel that would make the most stoic of magpies green with envy.
A large egg, not of any bird you know, but rather a treasure trove encrusted
with precious jewels that shimmer in the dappled sunlight like stars in a velvet
night sky. This egg, adorned with fine gold inlay and ornamented with lapis
lazuli and mother-of-pearl, boasts a sophistication that suggests it might open,
should one find the delicate clasp that holds its secrets. It whispers tales of
ancient wealth and mystery, yet warns of its fragility with every glint. In the
distance, the hopeful chirping of a songbird fills the air, perhaps the
architect of this opulent anomaly or merely a curious observer like yourself.

>open egg
With a mix of trepidation and excitement, you attempt to open the egg. Alas,
despite your enthusiasm, you find yourself ill-equipped for such a delicate
task. It seems you're in need of something a bit more refined than brute
strength or sheer will. Perhaps a tool designed for the finesse of a jeweler or
the gentle touch of a locksmith might do the trick.

>x egg
The jewel-encrusted egg, a marvel of avian thievery and magpie-like ambition,
remains tantalizingly closed. Its surface is a tapestry of lapis lazuli and
mother-of-pearl, held together by fine gold inlay, suggesting that whatever
secrets it holds are meant for more discerning hands or perhaps a specific key.
The delicate clasp, a masterpiece of miniature engineering, hints at complexity
beyond mere force.

>d
Forest Path:
Descending from your lofty perch among the branches with the grace of a slightly
disoriented squirrel, you find yourself back on the forest path. The dim light
filters through the canopy, casting mysterious shadows that dance at the edge of
your vision. The path, as if it were a loyal hound, continues to stretch both
north and south from your current position. The large tree, now behind you,
stands like a silent guardian at the edge of the path, its low branches a
reminder of your recent aerial adventure.

>n
Clearing:
You find yourself in a serene clearing, encircled by the whispering forest like
a secret meeting place for woodland spirits. A path, like a ribbon of adventure,
beckons you back to the south. On the ground, a suspiciously neat pile of leaves
catches your eye, hinting at mysteries hidden beneath.

>get leaves
As you gallantly sweep aside the pile of leaves with a flourish worthy of a
forest custodian, you uncover a grating cunningly hidden beneath. It's as if the
leaves were merely a leafy toupee atop the forest floor's balding pate. With a
sense of accomplishment that could only be rivaled by discovering hidden
treasure or the last biscuit in the tin, you've taken the first step into
unraveling the mysteries that lie beneath.
Revealed and taken.

>x leaves
Upon closer inspection, the pile of leaves seems to be an artful arrangement by
nature itself, a chaotic yet harmonious blend of autumn's finest colors.
However, amidst this natural tapestry, something man-made lurks beneath, as if
the earth itself is trying to keep a secret. The leaves rustle with a whisper of
mystery, hinting at hidden depths below.

>e
Forest:
You've wandered into a dimly lit forest, where the trees stand like silent
sentinels in the twilight. Their towering forms create a canopy so dense, not
even the cheekiest ray of sunlight dares to sneak through. The air is thick with
the scent of moss and mystery, and the only sound is the distant call of an
unseen bird. Paths meander in several directions, but without a compass or a
friendly squirrel to guide you, it's anyone's guess which way leads to adventure
and which way to certain doom.

>e
Forest:
As the forest graciously steps aside, you find yourself facing the grandeur of
nature's own barricade: impassable mountains stretching up to kiss the sky.
Their peaks, shrouded in mystery and possibly dragons, loom over you, suggesting
this is as far as you can go. The trees behind you whisper of other paths yet to
be explored.

>s
Forest:
You find yourself enveloped in the dim, dappled light of the forest once more,
with ancient trees standing like silent sentinels all around. The air is thick
with the scent of moss and mystery. From somewhere in the leafy canopy above,
the melodious chirping of a songbird serenades you, a reminder of the forest's
hidden treasures and unseen watchers.

>s
Clearing:
You find yourself in a quaint clearing, a cozy nook in the heart of the forest
where the path decides it's had enough of straight lines and opts for a scenic
detour to the east and west. The trees around you seem to lean in, as if eager
to overhear your next move, while the underbrush rustles with the secrets of the
forest. The air here is filled with the scent of adventure and the faintest hint
of mystery carried by the breeze.

>e
Canyon View:
Perched atop the Great Canyon's western edge, you find yourself in the midst of
a breathtaking panorama. The canyon stretches below, a testament to nature's
artistry, with the Frigid River carving its way through the landscape upstream.
The White Cliffs stand proudly across the expanse, their faces merging with the
formidable Flathead Mountains to the east, a sight that could stir the heart of
the most hardened adventurer. To the north, the Aragain Falls cascade with a
majesty that paints a rainbow amidst the spray, a spectacle that poets and
painters dream of capturing. Emerging from the shadows, the Frigid River bursts
forth from a cavernous maw, hinting at untold mysteries and adventures. The view
west and south reveals an endless sea of greenery, the forest sprawling into the
horizon like a verdant carpet. A trail meanders northwest, whispering promises
of further wonders, while the daring might find a way to descend directly into
the canyon's embrace from here. The world is alive with possibilities, each
direction a new chapter waiting to be written.

>d
Rocky Ledge:
Perched precariously on a ledge about halfway up the grand wall of the river
canyon, you find yourself in a rather tight spot. Below, the canyon bottom
beckons, a siren's call to the adventurous and the foolhardy. Above, the cliff
face stretches towards the sky, offering a challenge that seems almost
climbable, if one possesses the courage and the nimbleness of a mountain goat.
From your vantage point, you can spy the main flow from Aragain Falls, twisting
and turning through a passage as elusive as a shadow in the night, clearly a
path that you, with your current means, cannot hope to traverse.

>d
Canyon Bottom:
Ah, you've descended to the very bosom of the canyon, where the walls loom like
ancient guardians of yore, possibly climbable if one possesses the agility of a
mountain goat or the determination of a particularly stubborn mule. The lesser
offspring of the majestic Aragain Falls tumbles by, a silver thread in the
tapestry of this rugged landscape. To the north, a narrow path whispers promises
of mysteries yet to be uncovered.

>n
End of Rainbow:
Ah, what a sight to behold! You find yourself on a quaint, rocky beach, a hidden
gem where the Frigid River, having tumbled down the majestic Aragain Falls,
continues its journey. The beach, though narrow, is hemmed in by the imposing
White Cliffs, standing tall like ancient guardians of secrets untold. Here, the
river canyon widens, welcoming beams of sunlight that dance upon the water's
surface, creating a spectacle of light. A rainbow, in all its ephemeral glory,
arches gracefully over the falls to the east, painting the scene with hues of
promise and wonder. To the southwest, a narrow path snakes away, whispering of
adventures yet to come.

>examine the rainbow
Ah, the rainbow, nature's very own palette in the sky, a bridge to the untold
treasures of lore and legend. As you gaze upon its splendid arc, stretching from
the misty embrace of the falls to the distant, unreachable horizon, you can't
help but marvel at the vibrant hues dancing in the sunlight. Alas, despite its
ethereal beauty and the tales of pots of gold that might lie at its end, this
particular rainbow, though a feast for the eyes, holds no secrets to be
uncovered nor paths to be traversed. It is, in its essence, a mere spectator in
the grand theater of the natural world around you.

>examine water
Ah, the water! A shimmering, ever-flowing dance of H2O that has journeyed
through the veins of the earth, cascading from the lofty Aragain Falls to grace
this very spot. It's cool to the touch, a refreshing contrast to the air around,
and clear enough to reveal the pebbled bed below. Yet, despite its inviting
clarity, it holds no secrets nor treasures for the weary adventurer. It's just
water, doing what water does best - flowing, falling, and filling the air with
the melody of its movement.

>sw
Canyon Bottom:
You find yourself once again at the base of the river canyon, where the walls
loom like ancient guardians of forgotten secrets. The lesser part of Aragain
Falls' runoff babbles past, whispering tales of the journey it has undertaken.
Above, the canyon walls offer a challenge to those daring enough to climb,
hinting at mysteries yet to be discovered. To the north, a narrow path snakes
away, inviting the bold to explore what lies beyond. The air is filled with the
scent of adventure, and the promise of discovery tickles your senses.

>u
Rocky Ledge:
Perched precariously on a ledge about halfway up the formidable wall of the
river canyon, you find yourself. From this vantage point, the main flow from
Aragain Falls can be seen carving its way through the landscape, twisting and
turning through a passage that, alas, remains a tantalizing mystery beyond your
reach. Below, the canyon bottom beckons, a testament to the relentless forces of
nature. Above, the cliff stretches towards the heavens, its rugged face hinting
at the possibility of ascent. The question now, brave explorer, is whether to
climb higher towards the unknown or descend back to the familiar embrace of the
canyon's floor.

>u
Canyon View:
Ah, you've ascended to the top of the Great Canyon, perched like an eagle on its
west wall. Before you unfolds a tapestry of nature's finest work: the canyon's
vast expanse, the serpentine Frigid River carving its way upstream, and the
White Cliffs standing guard like ancient sentinels across the chasm. To the
east, the Flathead Mountains loom, their peaks shrouded in mystery and the
promise of untold adventures. Gaze northward to witness the majestic Aragain
Falls, its waters dancing in the sunlight, creating a rainbow that bridges the
realms of fantasy and reality. Below, the dark maw of a cavern yawns, from
whence the mighty Frigid River emerges, as if birthed by the earth itself. To
the west and south, an immense forest stretches into the horizon, a verdant sea
of green mystery. A path beckons you northwest, whispering of journeys yet to
come. And should the spirit of adventure stir your soul, the canyon calls to
you, offering a path to climb down into its depths.

>w
Forest:
You find yourself enveloped in the embrace of a dimly lit forest, where ancient
trees stand like silent sentinels all around. Their thick canopies weave a
tapestry of shadows on the forest floor, creating an atmosphere of mystery and
quiet anticipation. The air is filled with the earthy scent of moss and the
distant sound of rustling leaves, suggesting the presence of unseen creatures.
Paths meander through the underbrush, inviting further exploration.

>w
Forest:
You've wandered deeper into the heart of a whispering forest, where the trees
stand tall and proud, their branches intertwining like dancers in the sky. In
every direction, the forest stretches, a labyrinth of green. To the east, a hint
of sunlight teases through the dense canopy, suggesting a way back to the open.
The air is filled with the melodious chirping of a songbird, its tune a
mysterious, yet comforting presence amidst the solitude.

>w
Venturing further west, you discover the underbrush grows thick and unyielding,
as if nature herself has decided you shall not pass without the aid of a trusty
machete. The dense foliage whispers secrets of the forest, but alas, they remain
just out of reach. Meanwhile, the melodic chirping of a distant songbird offers
a whimsical soundtrack to your moment of impasse.

>s
Forest:
You find yourself in a shadowy enclave of the forest, where the trees stand like
ancient guardians, their branches weaving a tapestry of darkness above. The air
is thick with the scent of moss and mystery, and the ground beneath your feet is
a carpet of fallen leaves and secrets untold. Large trees surround you, their
trunks gnarled and twisted, as if they've witnessed the passage of countless
ages. The dim light that filters through the canopy casts eerie shadows, making
the forest seem alive with whispers of the past.

>w
Forest:
Enchanted Forest
You find yourself in an ancient forest, where the trees stand tall and proud,
their branches weaving a dense tapestry above. The air is filled with the earthy
scent of moss and the whispers of leaves. In every direction, the forest
stretches, a labyrinth of green. To the east, a soft glow suggests the promise
of sunlight piercing the canopy.

>w
Venturing further west, alas, is a task for the bold and the equipped, for the
underbrush grows thick and unyielding, as if guarding ancient secrets or perhaps
just being difficult. A machete would be your key to this leafy labyrinth.
Meanwhile, the melodic chirping of a distant songbird provides a whimsical
soundtrack to your forest escapade, hinting at mysteries untold or simply
enjoying its own existence.

>s
Forest:
Enchanted Forest
You find yourself in a shadowy enclave of the forest, where the light dares only
to whisper amongst the ancient, towering trees. Their branches weave a tapestry
above, casting intricate shadows that dance upon the ground with every gentle
breeze. The air is thick with the scent of moss and mystery, hinting at secrets
hidden in the heart of the woods.

>w
Forest:
Enchanted Forest
You've wandered into an enchanted part of the forest, where the trees seem to
whisper secrets of old and the sunlight plays hide and seek through the dense
canopy. In every direction, ancient trees stand like silent guardians of
nature's mysteries. To the east, a teasing glimmer of sunlight suggests a way
out of this natural labyrinth.

>e
Forest Path:
You find yourself on a serpentine path that meanders through a forest shrouded
in twilight mystery. The path stretches from the north to the south, as if
undecided in its direction, much like a lost traveler. To the side, a grand old
tree stands sentinel, its low branches reaching out as if inviting you to climb.
The air is filled with the whispers of leaves, telling tales of ancient secrets
and adventures yet to be discovered.

>s
North of House:
Here you stand, gazing upon the north side of an enigmatic white house, its
walls as silent as the secrets it keeps. No welcoming door graces this side, and
the windows, once perhaps full of life and light, are now boarded up, as if to
keep prying eyes and adventurous spirits at bay. To the north, a narrow path
snakes its way through the trees, whispering promises of mysteries yet to be
uncovered. The air is thick with the scent of adventure, and the quiet seems to
hum with untold stories.

>se
Behind House:
You find yourself at the rear of the white house, where secrets and shadows
mingle. A path, like a whisper, invites you eastward into the embrace of the
forest. Tucked away in a cozy corner of the house, a small window stands ajar,
as if left open by a forgetful ghost or perhaps an invitation from the unknown.

>enter the house
Kitchen:
of Whimsy and Peril
Ah, you've boldly ventured into the kitchen of the white house, where culinary
adventures once frolicked and danced! The table, a sturdy oak affair, bears the
marks of recent food preparation - perhaps a ghostly chef's midnight snack? To
the west, a passage whispers secrets of rooms beyond, while a dark staircase to
the north beckons you into the shadows with the promise of mystery. A dark
chimney, looking like the maw of some slumbering beast, leads down into the
unknown. To the east, a small window stands open, as if inviting the breeze (or
perhaps more adventurous souls) to enter.

Perched upon the table, as if awaiting your arrival, is a glass bottle, its
sides glistening with the promise of refreshment. It cradles a quantity of water
within, a liquid treasure for the parched adventurer. Beside it, an elongated
brown sack exudes the tantalizing aroma of hot peppers, hinting at culinary
delights or fiery traps for the unwary.

>i
In the grand tradition of adventurers and explorers before you, your inventory
currently boasts the following treasures:
  - A pile of leaves, which, while not gold or jewels, could be considered a
treasure by a particularly imaginative or desperate individual.
  - A leaflet, possibly the most mysterious and intriguing item in your
possession. Who knows what secrets or mundane information it might hold?

>get all
With a flourish worthy of a seasoned adventurer, you deftly scoop up the
treasures before you. The glass bottle, its contents sloshing with the promise
of hydration or perhaps a makeshift lantern, is now securely in your grasp. The
elongated brown sack, exuding an aroma that could either lure a dragon or repel
it, depending on the dragon's culinary preferences, is also taken. Your
inventory grows richer, as does the tapestry of your journey.

>d
Ah, it seems you've mistaken yourself for a jolly fellow in a red suit.
Chimneys, while tempting, are not the preferred method of descent for
adventurers without a sleigh. Perhaps another path beckons?

>w
Living Room:
Ah, the grand living room, a place of mystery and dust bunnies! To the east, a
doorway beckons like a siren's call, while to the west, a wooden door adorned
with strange gothic lettering stands, its nails proclaiming "No Entry" with the
subtlety of a dragon's roar. A trophy case, a testament to adventures past or
perhaps just good interior decorating, occupies pride of place. Dominating the
room, however, is a large oriental rug that seems to whisper tales of the exotic
and the unknown. Suspended in a place of honor above the trophy case is an
elvish sword, its blade shimmering with a history of valor and great antiquity.
Perched atop the trophy case, like a beacon in the dark, is a battery-powered
brass lantern, its glow promising illumination and perhaps, just perhaps, a hint
of safety.

>get all
sword: With a flourish worthy of the finest elvish warrior, you now possess the
ancient sword.
brass lantern: Alas, the weight of your current possessions anchors you firmly
to the ground, preventing the addition of the brass lantern to your inventory.
carpet: Despite your most Herculean efforts, the rug remains as immovable as the
mountains, refusing to be carried.
trophy case: The trophy case, a steadfast guardian of its contents, is securely
anchored to the wall, defying your attempts to take it.

>drop leaves
With a flourish worthy of a leaf on the wind, you release the pile of leaves,
which flutters to the ground in a display of autumnal grace. Dropped.

>get lamp
With a flourish worthy of a stage magician, you deftly add the brass lantern to
your collection of treasures. Its weight feels reassuring in your hands, a
beacon of hope and illumination in the shadowy corners of this adventure.

>e
Kitchen:
Ah, the heart of any home, even a mysterious white house! You find yourself back
in the kitchen, where culinary adventures once simmered and bubbled. A table,
looking like it hosted a feast or a solitary dinner not too long ago, stands
proudly in the center. To the west, a passage whispers secrets of rooms beyond.
Above, a dark staircase invites you to explore mysteries that lurk upstairs,
while a dark chimney yawns below, hinting at sooty descents not recommended for
the faint of heart. To the east, a small window is open, offering a breath of
fresh air and a sliver of the world outside.

>u
You have ascended the creaky staircase into an abyss of darkness, a realm where
the sun dares not venture. It is so pitch black, you might as well be in the
belly of a whale at midnight. Beware, for this is the favored haunt of the grue,
a creature that thrives in the shadows, licking its lips in anticipation of its
next meal. Might I suggest a source of light, lest you become an unwitting
snack?

>turn on lamp
With a click, the brass lantern bathes the room in a warm, golden glow.

Attic
You've illuminated the attic, revealing its secrets. The only escape from this
dusty memory trove is a stairway spiraling down into the shadows. In the corner,
a large coil of rope seems to whisper tales of adventure and escape. On a table,
there lies a knife with a gleam in its eye, as if it's seen more than its fair
share of action. It's not just any knife, but one that looks like it could tell
a thousand stories, if only it could talk.

>get all
rope: With a heave and a ho, you've now got a coil of rope, ready for whatever
escapades or daring rescues might come your way. Taken.
nasty knife: The knife, which looks like it's seen more than its fair share of
questionable dinners and possibly a duel or two, now belongs to you. Handle with
care, for it whispers tales of mischief and adventure. Taken.

>d
Kitchen:
Ah, the kitchen of the white house, where culinary disasters and minor miracles
have equal chances of occurring. A table, bearing the scars of recent food
preparation battles, stands proudly in the center. To the west, a passage
whispers secrets of rooms beyond, while a dark staircase to the north beckons
you upward with the promise of mystery. A gloomy chimney yawns downwards,
hinting at sooty adventures, and to the east, a small window is flung open,
offering a breath of fresh air and a sliver of the world outside.

>w
Living Room:
- A Cozy Conundrum
Ah, back in the living room, where adventurers can take a brief respite from
their daring escapades. To the east, a doorway beckons with the promise of
culinary discoveries. To the west, a wooden door, its surface etched with gothic
lettering that whispers of ancient secrets, remains steadfastly nailed shut - a
challenge or a warning? The room is adorned with a trophy case, a testament to
achievements past and perhaps a nudge to strive for more. Dominating the scene
is a large oriental rug, lying in the center like a slumbering beast from tales
of yore.
Scattered on the ground, as if left by a mischievous spirit, is a pile of
leaves, perhaps a reminder of the world outside or a clue to a puzzle yet
unsolved.

>move rug
Summoning every ounce of your strength and perhaps channeling the spirit of a
dozen swashbuckling heroes, you manage to heave the rug aside. Lo and behold,
beneath the intricate patterns and dust of ages, you uncover the secretive
outline of a trap door, its existence previously whispered only in the legends
of the living room.

>open trap door
With a creak that would make a ghost jealous, the trap door begrudgingly swings
open, unveiling a staircase that looks about as stable as a house of cards in a
breeze. It spirals down into an abyss that even the bravest of adventurers might
think twice about. The darkness below seems to swallow light whole.

>x wooden door
Upon closer inspection, the gothic lettering on the wooden door seems to be an
ancient joke among carpenters, translating to "Beware, for beyond this barrier
lies naught but the void itself. Also known as 'This space intentionally left
blank.'" It appears the door might just be a decorative piece, or perhaps it's
guarding secrets only the bravest dare to uncover.

>d
With a resounding thud that echoes through the musty air, the trap door slams
shut above you, and the sound of heavy objects being piled atop it suggests you
won't be taking the express elevator back up. Welcome to the cellar, a place
where the air is as damp as a swamp and just as welcoming. To the north, a
narrow passageway stretches into the gloom, whispering secrets of the unknown.
To the south, a crawlway beckons like a siren's call, promising adventure or
perhaps a tight squeeze. On the west, the bottom of a steep metal ramp mocks you
with its slick, unclimbable surface. And in this eerie ambiance, your sword
decides to put on a light show, glowing with a faint but unmistakable blue glow,
hinting at unseen dangers or perhaps just trying to be helpful in its own
mystical way.

>s
East of Chasm:
Perched precariously on the east edge of a chasm, you find yourself peering into
an abyss so deep, the bottom bids farewell to the light. To the north, a narrow
passage whispers secrets of ancient travels, while the path to the east promises
further adventures in the unknown. Your trusty sword, sensing the absence of
immediate danger, has ceased its ethereal glow.

>e
Gallery:
You've stumbled into what can only be described as an art gallery, though it
seems the local vandals beat you to it, pilfering the place with a discerning
eye for beauty. The exits lie to the north and west, marked by the delicate
footprints of the art-loving thieves. Yet, all hope is not lost for your inner
vandal; a single painting hangs on the far wall, its allure undeniable,
practically begging for a bit of mischief.

>x painting
Upon closer inspection, the painting reveals itself to be a masterful depiction
of the very adventure you're embarking upon, complete with a forest that seems
eerily familiar, a house that could very well be the one you've explored, and a
chasm that yawns with the promise of mystery. The details are exquisite,
suggesting that the artist might have been a fellow adventurer, or possessed an
uncanny foresight. However, despite its beauty and relevance, the painting
offers no secret compartments or hidden levers to fiddle with. It's simply a
tribute to the journey, a silent companion in this gallery of lost art.

>get painting
Ah, it appears your pockets are already brimming with treasures and trinkets
aplenty. The painting, while a masterpiece of unparalleled beauty, is simply too
grand to join the eclectic collection you're currently toting about. Perhaps
it's time to consider lightening your load or finding a way to expand your
carrying capacity.

>drop leaflet
With a flourish worthy of a grand magician, you release the leaflet from your
grasp. It flutters to the ground like a feather, coming to rest on the floor of
the gallery. The leaflet, once a companion on your journey, now lies abandoned,
yet it seems almost content in its new stationary life. Dropped.

>get painting
Alas, despite your Herculean efforts and the burning desire to liberate that
masterpiece from its lonely wall, your pockets, bags, and arms are already
brimming with treasures, trinkets, and possibly a few too many souvenirs from
your adventures. You'll need to lighten the load if you wish to add this
unparalleled beauty to your collection.

>i
In the depths of your pockets and the realms of your sack, you find yourself
burdened with an assortment of items that might make a lesser adventurer weep
with envy. Behold, your treasure trove consists of:
  - A nasty knife, which has seen more adventures than most have had hot
dinners.
  - A rope, sturdy and true, a loyal companion to any who dare to venture into
the unknown.
  - A brass lantern, its light piercing the darkness like a beacon of hope in a
world of shadows.
  - A sword, which, though silent, speaks volumes of the battles it has fought
and won.
  - A brown sack, unassuming in appearance, yet capable of holding wonders.
  - A glass bottle, within which dances a small tempest of water, eager to
quench your thirst or perhaps serve a more mysterious purpose.

Each item a story, each story a step on your journey. What tales will they tell
by the end of your quest?

>n
Studio:
You've stumbled upon what seems to be the lair of a wildly eccentric artist. The
walls and floors are a testament to a riot of creativity, splattered with paints
of 69 different hues, creating a kaleidoscope that would make a rainbow weep
with envy. Alas, it appears the artist valued their work too much to leave any
behind, or perhaps they've been spirited away by less colorful characters. At
the south end of the room, an open door beckons, its frame a casualty of the
paint wars. A dark and narrow chimney ascends from a fireplace, promising an
adventure upwards; though, like a cat up a tree, descending might prove a tad
more problematic. A small piece of paper, clinging to a wall as if hiding from
the paint, catches your eye.

>x paper
Ah, fortune smiles upon you!

In your hands, or rather on the wall, you've discovered the legendary charter of
ZORK I: The Great Underground Empire. This document, penned by the finest
scribes and sealed by the empire's most absent-minded wizards, serves as a
testament to your accidental acquisition of a pocket-sized universe. Treat it
with the care one might reserve for a temperamental cat or a small, somewhat
leaky boat, and it promises to be a source of endless diversion, perplexing
puzzles, and possibly a headache or two. Remember, like any universe worth its
salt (or space-time continuum), ZORK requires a delicate touch and a keen eye
for the absurd to navigate its wonders and avoid its pitfalls.

>climb chimney
Ah, the spirit of adventure calls you to ascend the chimney, does it? Alas, the
weight of your worldly possessions anchors you firmly to the ground. It seems
the laws of physics, and perhaps a smidge of common sense, suggest lightening
your load might just give your aspirations a fighting chance.

>drop rope and knife
With a flourish and a final farewell, you relinquish your grip on the rope,
allowing it to slither to the ground like a defeated serpent. The nasty knife,
with a glint of betrayal in its metallic eye, follows suit, clattering into
silence beside the rope. Both lie there, abandoned, yet ready for future
adventures.

>s
Gallery:
Ah, back in the gallery, where the air is thick with the scent of artistic
regret and the faintest hint of rebellion. Most of the masterpieces have been
spirited away by vandals of discerning palate and questionable ethics. They've
made their escape through the exits to the north or west, leaving behind a trail
of empty walls and dashed dreams. But lo! Not all is lost for those with a
penchant for mischief. On the far wall hangs a painting so magnificent, it could
make a stone statue weep. It's your turn to don the hat of a connoisseur-cum-
vandal, should you dare.

On the ground, as if to mock your burdened state, lies the leaflet you so
carelessly discarded earlier. It's as if the universe itself is winking at you,
reminding you of the transient nature of possession and the eternal dance of
pick up and drop.

>get painting
With a flourish worthy of a master thief, you deftly lift the painting from its
place on the wall. It's now safely tucked under your arm, ready to be admired,
sold, or used as a makeshift umbrella should the need arise. The gallery, now
bereft of its last treasure, looks decidedly less grand.

>n
Studio:
Ah, you've stumbled back into what can only be described as the aftermath of a
rainbow's sneeze. The walls and floors are a testament to an artist's love
affair with a spectrum of 69 different colors, each more vibrant than the last.
Alas, the room is bereft of any masterpieces, suggesting either a heist by art
connoisseurs of questionable morality or a very selective poltergeist. At the
south end, an open door beckons, its frame not spared from the polychromatic
chaos. Above, a dark and narrow chimney whispers promises of adventure and
probable soot stains; ascending might be possible, but descending would be a
tale for another day. A small piece of paper clings to a wall, fluttering
slightly as if eager to share its secrets.
On the floor, lying as if discarded in a moment of existential crisis, are your
previously abandoned nasty knife and trusty rope, both seemingly questioning
their purpose in life.

>u
Ah, the spirit of adventure calls you to ascend, but alas, the laws of physics
and your bulging pockets conspire against you. It seems the weight of your
worldly possessions is too much for such a climb. Perhaps lightening your load
might make the ascent less of an impossible dream.

>drop sack and bottle
With a flourish and a bow to the invisible audience of your burdens, you
gracefully relinquish the brown sack and the glass bottle to the floor. They
land with a soft thud and a clink, respectively, now free from the tyranny of
your inventory.

brown sack: Dropped.
glass bottle: Dropped.

>u
Ah, the spirit of adventure calls you to ascend the chimney, does it? Alas, the
laws of physics and perhaps a touch of common sense whisper, "Not with all that
loot, brave soul." It seems your inventory still weighs you down like a lovesick
anchor. Lighten your load further, and the chimney might just become your
stairway to... somewhere else.

>drop sword
With a heavy heart and a dramatic flourish worthy of the finest stage in the
land, you relinquish your grip on the sword. It clatters to the ground with a
sound that echoes the sorrow of a thousand fallen heroes. Farewell, trusty
blade! May we meet again in less gravity-bound circumstances.

Sword: Dropped.

>u
Kitchen:
Ah, the heart of any home, even a mysterious one! You find yourself in the
kitchen of the white house, where the air still whispers of culinary adventures
past. A table, bearing the marks of recent use, suggests someone might have been
whipping up a storm of a meal not too long ago. To the west, a passage beckons
with the promise of further exploration, while a dark staircase invites you to
test your courage by venturing upward. The dark chimney you so bravely ascended
now looms behind you, offering a swift descent should you choose. Meanwhile, to
the east, a small window stands open, a silent witness to the world outside.

>w
Living Room:
Ah, the grand living room, where dust dances in the beams of light like tiny,
lost fairies. To the east, a doorway beckons with the promise of mystery. To the
west, a wooden door, its surface etched with strange gothic lettering, stands
defiantly nailed shut - a silent guardian of secrets untold. A trophy case, a
shrine to victories past, waits patiently for new tales of glory. Beneath your
feet, a closed trap door whispers of hidden depths. Scattered on the floor, a
pile of leaves lies forgotten, perhaps a clue or merely the remnants of a bygone
autumn.

>put painting in case
Ah, a valiant attempt to immortalize your newfound treasure! Alas, the trophy
case, guardian of glory and keeper of achievements, remains steadfastly closed,
defying your efforts to add the painting to its collection. It seems you must
first unlock the secrets of opening it before your prize can take its rightful
place among the legends.

>open case
With a creak that suggests it hasn't seen action since the days when knights
were bold and dragons were, frankly, a bit of a nuisance, the trophy case swings
open, revealing a space inside that seems almost eager to cradle your ill-gotten
gains.

>put painting in case
With a flourish worthy of a grand magician, you place the painting in the trophy
case. It fits as though it was always meant to be there, adding a touch of class
and mystery to the collection. Well done!

>e
Kitchen:
Ah, the kitchen of the white house, where culinary disasters and minor miracles
have both been birthed. A table, cluttered with the remnants of a recent attempt
at cuisine, stands proudly in the center. To the west, a passage whispers
secrets of rooms beyond, while a dark staircase to the north promises mysteries
on a higher plane. Below, the dark chimney yawns, a reminder of your daring
ascent. To the east, a small window flutters open, inviting the curious and the
brave to peek at the world outside.

>e
Behind House:
Ah, the scenic rear of the white house, where mysteries and dustbins coexist in
harmony. A path, worn by the feet of countless adventurers and possibly a few
lost mailmen, meanders into the forest to the east. Nestled coyly in one corner
of the house, a small window winks open, as if inviting the more acrobatic or
slim among us to attempt an unorthodox entry.

>nw
North of House:
Ah, you've found yourself at the stoic north side of the white house, where
doors fear to tread and windows cower under the tyranny of boards. No entry
here, I'm afraid, unless you've suddenly become a termite. To the north, a
narrow path weaves its way through the trees like a serpent, promising or
threatening adventure, depending on how you feel about serpents and trees.

>n
Forest Path:
You find yourself meandering along a path that weaves its way through a forest,
where the light seems to play hide and seek with the shadows. The path stretches
from the north to the south, as if unsure of its own destination. To one side, a
grand old tree stands sentinel, its low branches beckoning like the arms of an
old friend. From somewhere in the leafy canopy above, the melodious trill of a
songbird fills the air, a reminder that you are never truly alone in these
woods.

>climb tree
Up a Tree:
Perched precariously about 10 feet above the ground, you find yourself nestled
among the sturdy arms of an ancient tree. The branches above taunt you,
remaining just beyond your grasp, as if the tree itself is challenging you to a
game of reach. Beside you, cradled in the crook of a branch, lies a small bird's
nest. This is no ordinary nest, however. Inside, you discover a large egg, not
of any bird's laying, but encrusted with precious jewels that shimmer in the
dappled sunlight. It's a magpie's dream, adorned with fine gold inlay and
ornamented with lapis lazuli and mother-of-pearl. This egg, however, harbors a
secret - it is hinged, sealed with a clasp as delicate as the whisper of love,
suggesting it can be opened. Handle with care, for it appears as fragile as the
heart of a spurned lover.

>get egg
With a grace that would make a cat burglar envious and a touch as gentle as a
lover's whisper, you deftly lift the jewel-encrusted egg from its nest. The egg,
a marvel of avian thievery and artistic craftsmanship, now rests safely in your
possession.

>d
Forest Path:
Ah, back on terra firma, are we? You find yourself on a path winding through a
dimly lit forest, where shadows play tricks and the air is filled with the
whispers of ancient trees. The path stretches north and south, a ribbon of
uncertainty in this verdant maze. To your side, one particularly large tree
stands sentinel, its low branches a testament to your recent arboreal adventure.

>s
North of House:
Ah, you find yourself once again before the stoic north facade of the white
house, where no door offers entry and the windows stubbornly refuse to reveal
their secrets, being thoroughly boarded up. To the north, the narrow path, like
a thread through the dense fabric of the forest, invites you to unravel its
mysteries.

>se
Behind House:
Ah, you've found yourself back behind the white house, where adventure seems to
lurk around every corner, or at least in the forest to the east. Here, the house
stands silent, its secrets tucked away behind walls and beneath an open window
that whispers of mysteries within. A path, like a sly invitation, snakes into
the forest, hinting at tales untold and adventures unclaimed.

>w
Kitchen:
Ah, the heart of the white house, where culinary disasters and miracles alike
have occurred. A table, bearing the scars of many a meal prepared in haste,
occupies the center of the room. To the west, a passage whispers secrets of
rooms beyond, while a dark staircase to the north beckons you with the promise
of mystery and perhaps a touch of danger. A dark chimney, looking like the mouth
of an ancient cave, leads down into the unknown. To the east, a small window
stands open, a silent invitation to the world outside.

>w
Living Room:
Ah, the grand living room of the white house, where echoes of laughter and the
clinking of glasses seem to linger in the air. To the east, a doorway leads back
to the familiar scents of the kitchen. To the west, a wooden door, its surface
carved with strange gothic lettering, stands imposingly, nailed shut as if to
say, "Keep out! Or enter if you dare..." A trophy case, a shrine to victories of
yore, beckons you to display your hard-won treasures. Beneath your feet, a
closed trap door whispers of secrets hidden in the dark depths below.
Scattered on the ground, a pile of leaves, perhaps blown in from a storm long
past, or the remnants of a makeshift bed for an uninvited guest.
Your collection of treasures, a testament to your adventuring prowess, currently
boasts:
    A painting, its value immeasurable, its beauty indescribable.

>put egg in case
With a flourish worthy of a master magician, you place the jewel-encrusted egg
into the trophy case. The egg, now nestled among your other treasures, seems to
shimmer with an inner light, as if pleased to be part of such a distinguished
collection. The case itself seems to glow a tad brighter, proud to house such a
magnificent find.

>open trap door
With a creak that suggests it hasn't been used since the last time someone
thought bell-bottoms were a good idea, the trap door begrudgingly swings open.
Below, a rickety staircase, as inviting as a dentist's chair, spirals down into
an abyss that even the bravest of adventurers might think twice about. Darkness
engulfs the staircase, hinting at mysteries or possibly just a need for a good
electrician.

>d
With a sound that echoes like the final note of a melancholy symphony, the trap
door slams shut above you. The unmistakable scrape of a bar being drawn across
it seals your fate. Welcome to the cellar, a place where the air is as damp as a
forgotten towel in a gym locker and just as welcoming. To the north, a narrow
passageway stretches out like the beginning of a dubious adventure, while to the
south, a crawlway beckons with the promise of cramped discomfort. On the west,
the bottom of a steep metal ramp looms, as unclimbable as the social ladder in a
room full of aristocrats.

>s
East of Chasm:
Perched precariously on the east edge of a chasm, whose depths plunge into the
very bowels of the earth, you find yourself. The abyss yawns before you, a
gaping maw of darkness, its bottom cloaked in the mysteries of the unseen. To
the north, a narrow passage whispers secrets of ancient travels, while the path
to the east promises adventures untold, winding its way into the embrace of the
unknown.

>e
Gallery:
You've stumbled into what can only be described as an art gallery, though one
that's seen better days. Most of the paintings have been spirited away by
vandals of discerning taste, leaving the walls as bare as a pirate's treasure
chest after a spending spree. The culprits made their dastardly escape through
either the north or west exits, leaving behind only the echo of their discerning
chuckles. Amidst the desolation, a small leaflet lies on the ground, perhaps a
clue left by the art-loving thieves or an invitation to an exhibition of empty
frames.

>n
Studio:
Ah, you've stumbled upon what seems to be the lair of a color-obsessed artist.
The walls and floors are a testament to their passion, splattered with a
kaleidoscope of 69 different hues. It's a riot of color that would make a
rainbow look positively drab. Yet, amidst this chromatic chaos, it appears the
artist deemed their masterpieces too precious for this world—or perhaps too
embarrassing—as nothing of value adorns the walls. At the south end, an open
door beckons, its frame not spared from the paint's embrace. A dark and narrow
chimney whispers of a vertical escape; though climbing up might be within the
realm of possibility, a return journey would likely defy the laws of physics and
common sense alike.
A small piece of paper flutters precariously on a wall, as if contemplating its
own leap of faith.
Here lies a sword, its blade yearning for adventure.
A glass bottle resides here as well, cradling a modest amount of water within
its transparent embrace.
A brown sack, perhaps once a carrier of dreams and provisions, sits forgotten.
A nasty knife lurks here, its intentions as dubious as its hygiene.
A rope, coiled like a sleeping serpent, awaits its moment to shine.

>get all
sword: With a flourish worthy of the finest duelist, you've added the sword to
your arsenal. Taken.
glass bottle: You've acquired the glass bottle, its contents sloshing
mysteriously within. Taken.
brown sack: The brown sack, possibly a container for countless treasures or
mundane groceries, is now yours. Taken.
nasty knife: Despite its dubious cleanliness and questionable moral character,
the nasty knife is taken.
rope: With dreams of swashbuckling adventures or perhaps just practical
applications, the rope is now in your possession. Taken.
ZORK owner's manual: In a twist of fate, the ZORK owner's manual, a tome of
knowledge and a beacon for the perplexed, has been claimed. Taken.

>read manual
Ah, fortunate soul!

You now possess the illustrious ZORK I: The Great Underground Empire, an expanse
so vast and intricate, it rivals the complexity of a cat's philosophy on sleep.
This self-sustaining cosmos, when treated with the tender care and whimsical
curiosity typically reserved for small, yet enigmatic universes, promises to
unfurl its mysteries and misadventures over countless hours, or at least until
the next solstice. Navigate its depths with the wisdom of a sage and the courage
of a knight errant, and ZORK shall reward you with tales and treasures beyond
your wildest daydreams.

>s
Gallery:
Ah, you've wandered back into the art gallery, where the aesthetic crimes of
highly discerning vandals are on full display. Most of the masterpieces have
been spirited away, leaving behind only the echoes of their beauty. The culprits
made their dashing escape through the north or west exits, presumably to
critique and pilfer elsewhere. A small leaflet, perhaps a clue or merely a piece
of forgotten ephemera, lies forlornly on the ground, whispering tales of art and
adventure.

>w
East of Chasm:
Ah, you find yourself teetering on the precipice of the unknown, at the east
edge of a chasm so deep, its bottom is lost to the shadows. A narrow, somewhat
treacherous passage snakes its way north, promising further adventures or
perhaps untimely doom. Meanwhile, the path you are on boldly continues to the
east, daring you to follow where it leads. Choose wisely, for not all paths are
as forgiving as they seem.

>n
Cellar:
Ah, the cellar! A place where the air is as damp as a forgotten towel and just
as welcoming. You find yourself in this shadowy embrace with a narrow passageway
beckoning you northward, and a crawlway to the south, whispering secrets of the
unknown. To the west, the bottom of a steep metal ramp stands, as unclimbable as
the social ladder at a dragon's tea party. And what's this? Your trusty sword,
perhaps sensing danger or just showing off, is glowing with a faint blue glow,
casting eerie shadows on the walls.

>n
The Troll Room:
Ah, you've stumbled into the lair of the infamous troll, a cozy little nook
that's seen better days. The ambiance is decidedly 'battle-weary chic', with
bloodstains artfully splattered across the walls and deep scratches that hint at
a rather spirited interior decorating style, likely courtesy of an axe. The room
offers a variety of exits: a mysterious passage to the east, a somewhat less
intimidating route south, and a rather ominous hole leading west that looks like
it could swallow you whole.

Dominating the scene is a troll of considerable ugliness, wielding a bloody axe
like it's going out of style. He seems to have taken a dislike to visitors,
blocking all conceivable exits with a glare that could curdle milk. Your sword,
perhaps sensing the gravity of the situation, has begun to glow with the
intensity of a thousand suns, or at least very brightly.

As the troll takes a swing at you, an action that could be considered rude in
most cultures, you manage to parry just in the nick of time, the air humming
with the close call.

>kill troll with sword
With a heroic flourish and a battle cry that would make your ancestors proud,
you deliver a fatal blow to the troll. The creature slumps to the floor, its
eyes wide with surprise at its sudden defeat. But the victory is short-lived.
Almost as soon as the troll breathes his last, a cloud of sinister black fog,
thick as a villain's intentions, envelops him. When the fog lifts, as if by some
dark magic, the carcass has vanished without a trace, leaving behind only the
echoes of its demise. Your sword, sensing the end of the battle, ceases its
glowing, its light dimming as if mourning the end of an exhilarating duel.

>drop sword
With a flourish worthy of a knight bidding adieu to a trusted steed, you release
the sword from your grasp. It lands with a solemn thud on the ground, its blade
catching the light one last time before lying still. Farewell, brave companion.

>e
East-West Passage:
You find yourself in a narrow east-west passageway, the walls close enough to
touch with outstretched arms. The air is cool and carries the faint scent of
moss. At the north end of this claustrophobic corridor, a narrow stairway
spirals downward into the unknown, promising adventure or perhaps a touch of
peril. The passage stretches out to the east and west, like the world's least
inviting red carpet.

>e
Round Room:
Ah, you've stumbled upon the Round Room, a marvel of circular architecture where
the walls curve with the whimsy of a mad potter. Passages branch off like the
roots of an ancient tree, though fate, in her infinite jest, has seen fit to
collapse several, leaving them as impassable as the social divide at a vampire's
tea party. The air is thick with the dust of ages, and the echoes of your
footsteps seem to mock you with every step. Choose your path wisely, for
adventure and possibly a mild sense of disorientation await.

>se
Engravings Cave:
As you gingerly step into a dimly lit, low cave, your eyes are immediately drawn
to the ancient engravings adorning the walls, whispering tales of yore and
mystery. Passages beckon from the northwest and east, each promising its own
brand of adventure. The air is thick with the scent of history, and you can't
help but wonder what secrets these stone canvases hold.

>x engravings
The engravings, carved with meticulous care into the very essence of the cave's
walls by artisans of yore, unfurl the tapestry of beliefs held sacred by the
ancient Zorkers. These intricate bas reliefs, a dance of symbolism and lore,
weave together the core religious tenets of a bygone era. Alas, in a twist of
fate as ironic as it is tragic, a less enlightened age deemed these profound
expressions blasphemous. With a precision rivaling that of their creators, these
later vandals excised the heart of the narrative, leaving behind a fragmented
glimpse into the spiritual life of the ancients.

>e
Dome Room:
You find yourself teetering on the edge of grandeur, at the very periphery of a
colossal dome. This architectural marvel forms the ceiling of a mysterious
chamber that sprawls out beneath you, its secrets cloaked in shadow. A rather
rickety wooden railing, which has seen better days, is all that stands between
you and a rather dramatic introduction to the room below. The railing circles
the dome, offering a precarious path around its circumference.

>tie rope to railing
With a flourish worthy of the most dashing of adventurers, you secure the rope
to the railing. It uncoils gracefully, cascading over the side like a waterfall
of hemp, and dangles tantalizingly close to the floor below - alas, a mere ten
feet shy of its target.

>d
Torch Room:
Ah, you've descended into the grand Torch Room, a chamber as mysterious as it is
spacious, with a doorway that beckons daringly to a staircase plunging further
into the unknown. Overhead, the large dome you so cleverly navigated looms, its
wooden railing a distant memory some 20 feet above. A rope, perhaps your own
handiwork, dangles from the railing, its end teasingly out of reach, a mere five
feet above your head. Dominating the room, on a pedestal of the purest white
marble, sits a torch. But this is no ordinary torch! Oh no, it's a masterpiece
of ivory, flames dancing atop it with a light that seems to laugh at the
darkness. It's as if the torch is waiting, just for you, to seize it and
illuminate your path to glory.

>x torch
The torch, crafted from the finest ivory, burns with an unwavering flame,
casting flickering shadows across the room. Its handle is adorned with intricate
carvings that seem to dance in the firelight. Despite its age, the torch shows
no signs of melting or diminishing, suggesting a magical origin.

>s
Temple:
of Whispers
You find yourself at the northernmost sanctum of a grand temple, its air thick
with the scent of ancient incense and mystery. To the east, an inscription
etched in the stone whispers secrets in a language lost to time, likely a prayer
or a spell that once held power over the hearts of the faithful. Beneath this
cryptic message, a staircase descends into the shadows, promising further
mysteries or perhaps peril. The west wall stands as a testament to the temple's
age, hewn from solid granite that has withstood the ravages of time. The only
escape from this chamber of wonders is through towering marble pillars to the
north, standing like silent sentinels. Amidst all this grandeur, a brass bell
sits unassumingly on the floor, its presence an enigma wrapped in a riddle.

>read inscription
The inscription, etched in a script so ancient it would make historians weep
with joy, appears to be a rather spirited diatribe against the nuisances of
life: small insects that buzz with the tenacity of a tax collector, the curse of
forgetting where one has left their keys, and the peculiar habit of picking up
small objects only to abandon them moments later. The climax of this poetic
masterpiece sternly warns that trespassers shall find themselves taking a one-
way trip to the shadowy realms of the dead. It's clear the ancient Zorkers had a
flair for the dramatic and possibly too much time on their hands.

>x bell
Upon closer inspection, the brass bell, though seemingly mundane at first
glance, carries an air of ancient solemnity. Its surface, tarnished by the
passage of countless years, whispers tales of ceremonies long forgotten and
rituals steeped in mystery. The clapper within, eager to break its silence,
awaits the touch of one who dares to disturb the quietude of this sacred temple.
Its presence here, amidst the echoes of prayers against the trivialities of
life, suggests it may have once played a pivotal role in the ceremonies of the
ancient Zorkers, perhaps to ward off the very nuisances lamented in the nearby
inscription.

>e
Egyptian Room:
You've stumbled upon a chamber that wouldn't look out of place in the heart of a
pyramid, complete with hieroglyphs that dance in the flickering torchlight. To
the west, an ascending staircase promises escape or perhaps further mysteries.
Dominating the room, and possibly your future nightmares, is the solid-gold
coffin of Ramses II, its surface gleaming ominously as if it guards secrets or
curses from millennia past.

>x coffin
The gold coffin, a marvel of ancient craftsmanship, lies before you, its surface
gleaming in the dim light. Closed as tightly as the secrets it keeps, it
promises mysteries of the past, wrapped in the opulence of its solid-gold
exterior.

>get coffin
Ah, ambition! While your spirit is commendable, the laws of physics and your own
mortal coil conspire against you. The golden sarcophagus of Ramses II,
magnificent as it is, remains steadfastly in place, mocking your attempts to
hoist it. Perhaps consider lightening your burden or seeking a more manageable
treasure.

>i
In the depths of your adventurer's satchel, you find a curious collection of
items that would make any pawn shop owner's eyes gleam with avarice or
confusion, possibly both. Behold, the treasures you've amassed:

- A ZORK owner's manual, its pages whispering secrets of a bygone era, possibly
useful if you ever encounter a wild ZORK in its natural habitat.
- A nasty knife, which has seen better days but still has a certain malevolent
charm. It's the kind of knife that wouldn't say no to a bit of light
backstabbing.
- A brown sack, as nondescript as it is mysterious. Who knows what it could hold
or has held in its lifetime? Currently, it cradles your hopes and dreams (and
possibly a sandwich).
- A glass bottle, a testament to your foresight in staying hydrated or starting
a small ship-in-a-bottle project. Within its transparent walls:
    - A quantity of water, which is just a poetic way of saying you've got some
water. It's wet.
- A brass lantern, banishing the darkness with its golden glow and providing a
comforting, if slightly flickering, light. It's your beacon in the shadowy
depths of adventure.

Each item a story, each story a mystery. What will you do with these artifacts
of power and peculiarity?

>drop manual
With a flourish worthy of a grand magician, you release the ZORK owner's manual
from your grasp. It lands with a soft thud on the ground, as if it's relieved to
be free of the arduous journey it's been unwillingly part of. Farewell, dear
manual, may you find solace here amidst the dust and echoes of history.

>get coffin
Ah, a bold endeavor indeed, attempting to hoist the solid-gold coffin of Ramses
II onto your already burdened shoulders! Alas, the weight of your current
possessions, combined with the undeniable fact that you are not, in fact, a
demigod, renders this task impossible. Perhaps consider lightening your load or
seeking supernatural strength before attempting such a Herculean feat again.

>drop sack
With a flourish worthy of a grand stage, you relinquish your grip on the brown
sack, allowing it to descend gracefully to the ground. It lands with a soft
thud, looking rather forlorn now that it has been separated from its intrepid
carrier.

>drop bottle
With a gentle clink, you set the glass bottle down, liberating it from the
clutches of your inventory. It now sits on the ground, its contents of water
glistening in the light, as if bidding a silent farewell to its carrier.

>get coffin
With a Herculean effort that would make Atlas nod in approval, you somehow
manage to hoist the solid-gold coffin of Ramses II onto your shoulders. It's as
if you've suddenly found yourself in a weightlifting competition with history
itself as your opponent. The ancient artifact, heavy with both gold and the
weight of millennia, is now yours. But do tread carefully, for such treasures
are not acquired without consequence.

>w
Temple:
You find yourself at the north end of a grand temple, its walls whispering tales
of ancient ceremonies. On the east wall, an ancient inscription beckons, its
characters dancing in a forgotten language - likely a prayer or a spell lost to
time. Below this mysterious script, a staircase descends into the shadows,
promising further adventures or perhaps peril. The west wall presents an
unyielding facade of solid granite, cold and indifferent to your presence. The
only escape from this chamber of secrets is through the majestic marble pillars
to the north, standing as silent guardians of the threshold. A brass bell, its
surface gleaming with the promise of untold stories, lies unassumingly on the
ground, waiting for a hand to break its silence.

>s
Altar:
Ah, you've stumbled into the south end of a grand temple, where the air is thick
with mystery and the faint scent of ancient incense. Before you stands a
majestic altar, its surface worn by the hands of countless devotees. In a
shadowy corner, a small, almost mischievous hole in the floor beckons daringly
to the unknown depths below, whispering secrets of no return. Flanking the
altar, two candles burn with a steady, unwavering flame, casting flickering
shadows that dance across the walls like spirits at play. Atop the altar, a
large black book lies open, its pages whispering tales of old as they flutter in
the gentle breeze, inviting you to gaze upon page 569, where secrets untold and
mysteries unspoken await your curious eyes.

>read book
Commandment #12592

Oh ye who traverse these hallowed halls with a greeting as casual as "Hello
sailor":
Art thou aware of the cosmic scale of thine indiscretion in the eyes of the
celestial beings?
Indeed, for such folly, thou shalt be crushed as wheat under the millstone.
Shall the irate deities hurl thy mortal form into the abyssal maelstrom?
Verily, thine eye shall be plucked with a stick sharpened by the fates
themselves!
Across the vast expanses shalt thou roam, bereft of solace,
And into the shadowy realms of the departed shalt thou be dispatched forthwith.
Repentance shall be thine only salvation from this cunningly woven tapestry of
doom.

>x candles
The candles, with their flames dancing like tiny sprites at a midsummer's eve
revel, cast a warm, flickering light across the altar. Their wax has melted into
curious shapes, perhaps hinting at the whims of fate itself. The glow they emit
seems to wrap the room in an ethereal embrace, suggesting that here, in this
sacred space, time itself might move differently.

>pray
Forest:
As you close your eyes and whisper a prayer, the world around you shifts in a
manner most peculiar. When you dare to peek, you find yourself standing in a
forest, where trees stand like ancient guardians in every direction. To the
east, a hopeful glimmer of sunlight pierces through the canopy, suggesting a
path or perhaps an escape from this verdant maze.

>turn off lamp
With a soft click, the brass lantern ceases its warm glow, surrendering you to
the whims of the surrounding darkness. Shadows dance at the edge of your vision,
as if the night itself breathes a sigh of relief at the quenching of your
artificial sun.

>s
Forest:
You find yourself in a dimly lit forest, a tapestry of shadows and whispers
among the towering trees. The air is thick with the scent of moss and mystery,
and the ground beneath your feet is a carpet of fallen leaves and secrets. Large
trees stand as silent sentinels all around, their branches weaving a high canopy
above, barely letting through any light.

>n
Clearing:
Ah, you've stumbled upon a quaint clearing, a serene oasis amidst the towering
sentinels of the forest. The well-trodden path here stretches like a lazy cat
from east to west, hinting at adventures and misadventures alike. The air is
filled with the whispers of leaves, speaking of ancient secrets and the passage
of countless feet - both shod and not.

>e
Canyon View:
Perched atop the Great Canyon's western edge, you find yourself gazing out over
a breathtaking vista. The canyon yawns below, a testament to nature's grandeur,
with the Frigid River carving its way through the landscape upstream. Across
this vast chasm, the White Cliffs rise to meet the formidable Flathead
Mountains, painting a picture of rugged beauty that stretches to the eastern
horizon. To the north, the Aragain Falls cascade down with a majesty that births
a rainbow, adding a splash of color to the scene. The river's source, a
mysterious cavern, promises dark secrets and perhaps danger. Turning your gaze
to the west and south, an endless sea of green stretches out as the immense
forest claims the land. A path offers escape to the northwest, while the daring
might find a way to descend directly into the canyon's depths from here. The
world is vast, and adventure calls from every direction.

>d
Rocky Ledge:
Perched precariously on a ledge about halfway up the grand wall of the river
canyon, you find yourself in a spot that offers a breathtaking view, albeit one
that might make your knees a tad wobbly. From your eagle's nest vantage, you can
spy the main flow from Aragain Falls, which dances and twists along a passage so
narrow and treacherous that even a cat with aspirations of grandeur would think
twice before attempting it. Below, the canyon bottom stretches out, a tapestry
of nature's untamed beauty, while above, the cliff face continues its ascent
into the heavens, appearing as though it might just be climbable for those with
a heart full of courage and a head full of questionable decision-making skills.

>d
Canyon Bottom:
You find yourself at the base of the towering canyon walls, which loom above you
like ancient guardians of stone. The walls here seem to whisper tales of old,
suggesting they might be scaled by those with a heart for adventure and sturdy
boots. The playful sibling of Aragain Falls, a lesser stream, dances by your
feet, heading off to join tales untold. To the north, a narrow path snakes away,
hinting at secrets yet to be discovered.

>n
End of Rainbow:
Ah, you've stumbled upon a small, rocky beach, a hidden gem nestled at the
continuation of the Frigid River past the majestic Aragain Falls. The beach,
though narrow, is a cozy nook thanks to the looming presence of the White
Cliffs. Here, the river canyon graciously opens its arms, allowing sunlight to
cascade in from above, painting everything in a golden hue. A magnificent
rainbow arches gracefully over the falls to the east, as if painted by the gods
themselves, and a narrow, somewhat secretive path continues to the southwest,
whispering promises of adventure.

>drop coffin
With a thud that echoes ominously through the surrounding landscape, you have
successfully relinquished the coffin to the ground. It lands with a finality
that suggests it's quite content to remain there, nestled amongst the rocks and
the whispers of ancient secrets.

>open coffin
With a creak that speaks of ages past and secrets untold, the gold coffin
begrudgingly opens. Inside, nestled as if by the hands of history itself, lies a
sceptre. This isn't just any sceptre, mind you, but one that whispers of the
grandeur of ancient Egypt, its surface a tapestry of colored enamel that dances
in the light. The sceptre, elegant and commanding, tapers to a point so sharp it
could convince a pharaoh to part with his kingdom.

>get sceptre
With a flourish worthy of a pharaoh's court, you deftly acquire the sceptre. Its
weight suggests power, its craftsmanship whispers of ancient secrets. Now safely
in your possession, it feels almost as if destiny itself has been handed to you.

>x sceptre
Upon closer inspection, the sceptre's craftsmanship whispers tales of ancient
Egypt, its surface adorned with intricate enamel that dances in the light. The
colors are vibrant, suggesting it was once held by someone of considerable
power. The sceptre tapers to a sharp point, hinting at a dual purpose - perhaps
ceremonial, perhaps something more defensive. Its weight feels balanced, as if
it yearns to be wielded by hands that appreciate its storied past. However,
beyond its obvious beauty and potential historical significance, no hidden
mechanisms or magical auras reveal themselves to you.

>wave sceptre
With a grand flourish that would make any court magician green with envy, you
wave the sceptre through the air. Lo and behold, the rainbow before you
undergoes a most extraordinary transformation. It solidifies, as if by magic
(well, obviously by magic), into a structure that bears an uncanny resemblance
to a bridge. And not just any bridge, mind you, but one equipped with stairs for
the ascent and a bannister for those who fear heights or simply appreciate the
finer details in bridge architecture. At the far end of this now tangible
rainbow, as if to reward your boldness (or perhaps to tempt fate), a pot of gold
shimmers into existence, gleaming with the promise of untold riches or at least
a very good story.

>get gold
With a flourish worthy of a grand magician, you scoop up the shimmering pot of
gold. It's heavier than it looks, suggesting that it's filled with more than
just dreams and rainbows. You now possess a treasure that would make a dragon's
heart flutter with envy.

>get coffin
With a grunt that would make your gym teacher proud, you hoist the gold coffin
onto your shoulders. It's heavier than your last relationship and nearly as
complicated to handle, but you manage. Taken.

>sw
Canyon Bottom:
Ah, back so soon? The walls of the river canyon tower above you, offering a
challenge that might be surmountable with a bit of a climb. The Aragain Falls,
in a modest display of its power, sends a gentle stream of water cascading by
your feet. To the north, the narrow path whispers promises of adventures yet to
be discovered.

>u
Rocky Ledge:
Perched precariously on a ledge that clings to life halfway up the sheer face of
the river canyon, you find yourself with a view that could inspire poets, were
they not too scared of heights to stand here. Below, the canyon bottom sprawls
like a lazy cat in the sun, while above, the cliff challenges you with a sneer,
daring you to climb it. The main flow from Aragain Falls performs a graceful
dance through a passage just out of reach, taunting you with its inaccessible
beauty.

>u
Canyon View:
Perched atop the Great Canyon's western wall, you find yourself in the midst of
a breathtaking panorama that could easily be the envy of any landscape painter.
The view stretches across the canyon, where the Frigid River carves its way
upstream, flanked by the imposing White Cliffs that dare to mingle with the
legendary Flathead Mountains to the east. To the north, the Aragain Falls
cascade with a grace that defies gravity, their mist catching the sunlight to
paint a permanent rainbow across the sky. The dark maw of a cavern from whence
the mighty Frigid River emerges adds a touch of mystery to the scene. To the
west and south, an immense forest sprawls like a sea of green, its boundaries
lost to the horizon. A path, perhaps less traveled, winds its way northwest,
inviting the bold. For those with a taste for adventure or perhaps a disregard
for personal safety, the cliff offers a precarious route down into the canyon's
embrace.

>nw
Clearing:
Ah, you've stumbled upon a quaint clearing, a cozy nook in the heart of the
forest where the trees part like the sea did for Moses, revealing a well-trodden
path that meanders east and west. The air here is filled with the whispers of
leaves, sharing secrets of the forest's ancient lore. The ground, a carpet of
soft, green moss, invites weary travelers to pause and perhaps ponder the
mysteries that lie hidden beneath its verdant cloak.

>w
Behind House:
You find yourself at the rear of the quaint white house, where mysteries and
adventures surely have unfolded. A path, worn by countless footsteps of the
curious and the brave, snakes into the dense forest to the east. Tucked away in
a cozy corner of the house, a small window stands ajar, inviting the more
intrepid or possibly foolhardy, to peek or venture through. The air is thick
with the scent of adventure, and the promise of untold stories lingers like the
morning mist.

>enter house
Kitchen:
Ah, the heart of the white house, where culinary magic once happened! You've
stumbled into a kitchen that whispers tales of recent feasts - or at least a
hastily made sandwich. A table, still bearing the crumbs of its last encounter
with food, stands proudly in the center. To the west, a passage beckons with the
promise of further adventure, while a dark staircase yawns upward, hinting at
mysteries above. A dark chimney, looking like the throat of some ancient beast,
leads down. To the east, a small window stands open, inviting the breeze to
dance with the lingering scents of meals past.

>w
Living Room:
Ah, the grand living room, where dust dances in the beams of light like tiny,
carefree sprites. To the east, a doorway beckons, promising the familiar
comforts of the kitchen. To the west, a wooden door, its surface etched with
strange gothic lettering that whispers of ancient secrets, firmly nailed shut as
if to say, "Not today, adventurous soul." A trophy case stands proudly, awaiting
new tales of glory, while a closed trap door at your feet hints at mysteries
untold or perhaps just extra storage space. Scattered on the ground, a pile of
leaves, which upon closer inspection, might have been part of a minor domestic
squabble or an indoor autumnal festival gone awry.
Your collection of treasures, a testament to your burgeoning legend, currently
includes:
    - A jewel-encrusted egg, shimmering with the promise of untold wealth or a
very opulent omelette.
    - A painting, which, if you squint, either depicts a serene landscape or an
abstract representation of your inner turmoil.

>put coffin in case
With a flourish worthy of a grand magician, you place the coffin in the trophy
case. It fits as if it were meant to be there all along, a testament to your
adventurous spirit and a rather peculiar choice of souvenir. Done and dusted!

>put gold in case
With a flourish worthy of a grand magician, you deposit the gold into the trophy
case. The air seems to hum with approval, as if the very walls of the room were
applauding your decision. Done and done right, if I may say so.

>put sceptre in case
With a flourish worthy of a royal coronation, you place the sceptre in the
trophy case. It fits as though it was always meant to be there, gleaming with an
air of importance among your growing collection of treasures. Done and done
right.

>open trap door
With a creak that would make a ghost jealous, the trap door begrudgingly swings
open, unveiling a staircase that has seen better days. It spirals down into an
abyss that even the bravest of hearts might find unsettling.

>turn on lamp
With a flick and a twist, your trusty brass lantern springs to life, casting a
warm, golden glow that pierces the surrounding darkness. The shadows retreat
like shy specters, revealing paths and secrets that were once shrouded in
mystery. The lantern, humming softly with the promise of adventure, is now on.

>d
Cellar:
Ah, you've descended into the heart of darkness itself, or so it seems in this
dank and musty cellar. The air is thick with the scent of forgotten years and
the walls seem to whisper secrets of the past. To the north, a narrow passageway
stretches into the gloom, promising mystery or perhaps peril. To the south, a
crawlway beckons the brave or foolhardy, its destination obscured by shadows. On
the west, the bottom of a steep metal ramp mocks your aspirations of ascent with
its slick, unclimbable surface. Amidst the cobwebs and crates, a sword lies
abandoned on the cold stone floor, its blade a silent testament to adventures
untold.

>terse
Ah, "terse," a word brimming with the desire for brevity and succinctness! Alas,
my vocabulary is vast but not infinite, and I find myself at a loss with this
particular term. Might I suggest we stick to the actions and paths clearly
illuminated by the lantern of our shared understanding?

>n
The Troll Room:
Ah, you've stumbled into the dimly lit Troll Room, a cozy little nook if you're
a fan of the macabre. Passages beckon to the east and south, while a rather
ominous hole yawns to the west, as if the earth itself is gasping in horror. The
walls, decorated in a style best described as 'early barbaric', are adorned with
bloodstains and deep scratches that suggest an interior decorator with a
penchant for axes had a bit of a tantrum. Speaking of which, there's a bloody
axe here, casually left as if someone just popped out for a quick troll snack
and forgot to clean up.

>brief
Ah, brevity is the soul of wit! From now on, you'll get just the essence, the
very marrow of your surroundings. No more, no less.

>e
East-West Passage:
You find yourself in a corridor that stretches from the east to the west, as if
the world itself has been neatly bisected for your convenience. The air is thick
with the scent of adventure, and the walls seem to whisper secrets of ages past.
To the east, the passage continues, promising further mysteries, while to the
west, it leads back to the room you just left, where tales of trolls and axes
await the brave or foolhardy.

>e
Round Room:
You've stumbled into the Round Room, a curious chamber where every wall curves
gently, meeting its neighbors in a perfect loop. The air here hums with a
strange energy, as if the room itself is waiting for something monumental to
happen. Passages branch off in all directions like spokes on a wheel, offering a
multitude of paths for the intrepid explorer.

>se
Engravings Cave:
As you step into the Engravings Cave, your eyes are immediately drawn to the
ancient etchings adorning the walls, whispering tales of yore. The air is thick
with the scent of history, and you can't help but feel as if countless
generations are watching over your shoulder, eager to share their long-forgotten
stories.

>e
Dome Room:
You find yourself back in the Dome Room, where the echoes of your footsteps
mingle with the whispers of long-gone adventurers. The room is dominated by a
large, glass dome that bathes the space in a kaleidoscope of light, casting
shadows that dance like specters on the walls. To the north, a narrow passage
beckons with the promise of mystery, while the way you came lies to the west,
ready to welcome you back like an old friend.

>d
Torch Room:
Bathed in a warm, flickering light, you find yourself in a chamber that whispers
of ancient secrets. At its heart, a pedestal cradles a torch, its flames dancing
merrily atop an ivory handle, casting shadows that seem to play along the walls.

>s
Temple:
You've stumbled upon a solemn temple, its ancient walls whispering secrets of
forgotten rituals. In the midst of this hallowed ground, a brass bell sits, its
gleam catching your eye amidst the shadows. It beckons with a promise of
mysteries untold.

>e
Egyptian Room:
You've stumbled upon a room that whispers of ancient secrets and long-lost lore.
Amidst the echoes of a civilization gone by, you notice a glass bottle resting
nonchalantly on a pedestal, as if waiting for millennia just for your arrival.
The bottle, crafted from the finest sands of the Nile, cradles a quantity of
water - perhaps a potion or merely hydration for a parched adventurer. Nearby, a
brown sack, looking rather out of place in such grandeur, sits quietly, its
contents a mystery. And there, in the corner, lies a ZORK owner's manual, its
pages filled with wisdom and wit, a beacon for the bewildered.

>get sack
With a flourish worthy of a master thief, you deftly scoop up the brown sack.
Ah, the weight of potential loot! It's yours now.

>open sack
With a flourish worthy of a seasoned adventurer, you open the brown sack. Lo and
behold, nestled within its depths are a pungent clove of garlic, daring any
vampire to think twice, and a lunch that looks suspiciously like it was prepared
by someone with a profound love for all things edible and portable.

>get garlic
With a deft hand, you've liberated the clove of garlic from its burlap prison.
It's now safely nestled in your inventory, ready to ward off vampires or add a
bit of zest to your next meal.

>drop sack
With a flourish worthy of a grand adventurer, you relinquish your hold on the
brown sack, allowing it to descend gracefully to the ground, where it lands with
a soft thud, now part of the Egyptian Room's eclectic collection.

>w
Temple:
You find yourself back in the solemn Temple, where the air hums with ancient
secrets. In the midst of this mystical aura, a brass bell sits, unassuming yet
majestic, as if it's the key to untold mysteries.

>s
Altar:
Illuminated by the flickering glow of a pair of candles, the room takes on an
almost mystical air. On the altar, commanding attention in the center of this
hallowed space, rests a large black book. Its pages, worn by the touch of
countless seekers, are open to page 569, as if awaiting your perusal with bated
breath.

>pray
Forest:
As you close your eyes and whisper your prayer into the void, a gentle breeze
carries your words away. When you open your eyes, you find yourself standing in
the Forest, the trees whispering secrets in a language lost to time. It seems
the gods have a sense of humor, or perhaps they're just fond of trees.

>s
Forest:
You find yourself in a dense forest, where the trees conspire to block out the
sun, casting everything in a perpetual twilight. The air is filled with the
sounds of unseen creatures, and the scent of adventure lingers like a fine mist.
Paths meander in several directions, disappearing into the thick underbrush.

>n
Clearing:
You find yourself in a serene clearing, bathed in a dappled light that dances
through the leaves above. The air here is fresh, carrying the scent of
wildflowers and the distant hint of adventure. Paths lead off in several
directions, each promising its own secrets.

>w
Behind House:
Behind the House, where mysteries of domesticity meet the wild unknown. A quaint
garden, now overgrown with the whispers of adventure, stretches out before you,
eagerly awaiting your next move. The back of the house stands silent, guarding
its secrets like a stoic sentinel.

>enter house
Kitchen:
, a realm of culinary chaos where the aroma of past feasts lingers like a ghost.
A sturdy table stands at the center, bearing the scars of many a meal prepared
in haste. To the north, a passage leads to the living room, a place of relative
calm compared to this bustling hub of household activity. Here, amidst the pots
and pans, one can almost hear the echoes of culinary triumphs and disasters
alike.

>w
Living Room:
You've stumbled into a cozy yet grandiose living room, where the dust dances in
the slivers of light piercing through the curtains. On the ground, a pile of
leaves has made a rather audacious attempt at indoor living. Scattered around
your feet, your collection of treasures gleams with the promise of untold
stories. You possess:
    - A sceptre, possibly wielded by a king or a very fancy bandit.
    - A pot of gold, not found at the end of a rainbow but rather at the end of
your wits.
    - A gold coffin, which is either a very opulent resting place or the world's
most ostentatious jewelry box.
    - A jewel-encrusted egg, which could hatch into a dragon or a lifetime of
wealth. Probably the latter.
    - A painting, whose eyes seem to follow you around the room, judging your
interior decorating skills.

>open trap door
Ah, the mysteries of the unseen elude you once more! There is no trap door here
to open, intrepid explorer. Perhaps it's hidden in the shadows, or maybe it's
just your imagination running wild with tales of secret passages and hidden
chambers. Keep your wits about you and your eyes peeled for clues in more likely
places!

>l
Living Room:
Ah, the grand living room! A place of mystery and dust bunnies. To the east, a
doorway beckons with the promise of adventure, while to the west, a wooden door,
adorned with strange gothic lettering, stubbornly refuses entry, its surface
marred by nails that have seen better days. A trophy case stands proudly, albeit
a bit dusty, longing for new tales of glory. Beside it, a rug lies crumpled next
to an open trap door, whispering secrets of the depths below.
Scattered on the ground, a pile of leaves, perhaps left by a forgetful autumn
spirit. And let's not forget your collection of treasures, a testament to your
bravery and possibly light thievery:
    - A sceptre, shimmering with the promise of power.
    - A pot of gold, not at the end of a rainbow, but here, in your grasp.
    - A gold coffin, which is either a lavish final resting place or a very
impractical travel case.
    - A jewel-encrusted egg, which makes you wonder about the chicken that laid
it.
    - A painting, its subject matter as mysterious as its origins.

>d
Cellar:
You've descended into the shadowy depths of the cellar, where the air is cool
and smells faintly of forgotten tales. In the dim light, you spot a sword
resting against the wall, its blade gleaming with an almost magical allure.

>n
The Troll Room:
You've stumbled upon a scene most grim: a bloody axe lies abandoned on the
floor, its story untold but undoubtedly sinister. Just as you take in this
macabre sight, a "lean and hungry" gentleman, who looks as though he hasn't seen
a good meal or a stroke of luck in ages, saunters through with a large bag slung
over his shoulder. He scans the room with eyes sharp as daggers, searching for
anything of value. Alas, finding the room as bereft of treasures as his own
pockets, he huffs in frustration and departs, leaving you alone with the silent
axe.

>verbose
Ah, a connoisseur of detail! From now on, I shall regale you with every nook,
cranny, and whimsical detail of your surroundings, sparing not a single
adjective in my quest to paint your adventure with the broadest strokes of
verbosity known to humankind. Prepare yourself for a journey where every leaf
and cobblestone has a story, and every shadow dances with the secrets of yore.

>e
East-West Passage:
You find yourself in a narrow east-west passageway, the walls close enough to
touch with outstretched arms. The air is cool and carries the faint scent of
moss. At the north end of this claustrophobic corridor, a narrow stairway
spirals downward into the unknown, whispering promises of adventure and perhaps,
just perhaps, a touch of danger.

>n
Chasm:
A gaping chasm stretches before you, its jagged mouth yawning from southwest to
northeast, as if the earth itself has cracked a sly grin. The path, much like
your adventurous spirit, daringly follows its edge. Here you stand on the south
side, where a curious crack splits the ground, beckoning with the promise of
hidden passages and whispered secrets.

>ne
Reservoir South:
Ah, you've stumbled upon the grand Reservoir South, a majestic chamber where the
waters of adventure gather. Before you lies a vast lake, its depths unknown and
its breadth too wide for any mortal to consider crossing without the aid of a
magical gondola or a pair of very sturdy swimming trunks. To the east and west,
paths meander along the stream, whispering secrets of the lands beyond. A steep
pathway to the southwest invites the brave to skirt the edge of a chasm, where
the air is thick with the scent of mystery and the occasional echo of a distant,
forlorn troll. To the southeast, a path leads into a canyon, promising the
allure of hidden treasures or perhaps an elegant tea party hosted by local
sprites. Choose your next step wisely, for the world is vast and full of wonders
yet to be discovered.

>e
Dam:
You find yourself atop the grandeur of Flood Control Dam #3, a marvel of
engineering that once drew crowds from lands near and far, now a solemn guardian
of forgotten tales. Paths diverge in a tantalizing dance to the north, south,
and west, with an adventurous scramble awaiting those who dare descend. The
sluice gates, guardians of the waters, stand firmly closed, holding back the
might of a vast reservoir. Its waters, in a defiant act of freedom, cascade over
the dam's crest, a testament to nature's unyielding will. Before you, a control
panel stands sentinel, its surface dominated by a large, unyielding metal bolt.
Above this metallic titan, a small green plastic bubble winks in the light, a
silent beacon amidst the echoes of history.

>n
Dam Lobby:
Ah, the Dam Lobby, a relic of a bygone era when Flood Control Dam #3 was the
jewel in the crown of local tourism. This room, with its faded grandeur, served
as the gathering spot for eager visitors, now silent but for the echoes of
footsteps past. To the north and east, doorways marked "Private" hint at
mysteries untold, while a path to the south offers a brisk walk atop the dam
itself. On the reception desk, abandoned guidebooks titled "Flood Control Dam
#3" whisper secrets of engineering marvels to those who dare to leaf through
their pages. A matchbook, its cover proudly proclaiming "Visit Beautiful FCD#3",
lies here as a memento of adventures that once were and could be again.

>get matches
With a swift and dexterous motion that would make a pickpocket green with envy,
you deftly acquire the matchbook. Its cover, proclaiming "Visit Beautiful
FCD#3", now promises to light up your adventure in more ways than one.

>x guidebook
"Flood Control Dam #3: A Marvel of Inefficiency

Ah, the legendary FCD#3, a testament to the grandeur of the Great Underground
Empire, and a shining example of what can be achieved when an omnipotent tyrant
with more money than sense decides to play architect. Erected in the year 783,
under the watchful eye of Lord Dimwit Flathead the Excessive, this colossal
structure was built with a staggering grant of 37 million zorkmids. Its purpose?
To tame the wild whims of the Frigid River, a task as thankless as teaching
etiquette to a bandersnatch.

The dam itself is a behemoth, boasting 370,000 cubic feet of concrete, standing
256 feet tall at its heart, and stretching 193 feet across at its broadest
point. Behind this concrete giant lies a lake with a volume of 1.7 billion cubic
feet, covering an area of 12 million square feet, and a shoreline that meanders
for 36 thousand feet, give or take a few feet for the local wildlife to make
their mark.

The construction of this marvel (or monstrosity, depending on whom you ask) was
a whirlwind of activity, spanning a mere 112 days from the first shovel hitting
the dirt to the grand ribbon-cutting ceremony. It employed a diverse workforce
consisting of 384 slaves, 34 slave drivers (to keep the aforementioned slaves in
line), 12 engineers (to ensure the whole thing didn’t collapse), 2 turtle doves,
and a partridge in a pear tree (because why not add a touch of festive spirit?).

Overseeing this chaotic symphony of construction was a command team made up of
2345 bureaucrats, 2347 secretaries (a testament to the empire's commitment to
administrative redundancy), 12,256 paper shufflers, 52,469 rubber stampers,
245,193 red tape processors, and nearly one million dead trees, sacrificed in
the name of progress and paperwork.

As you embark on this guided tour through the annals of excessive engineering,
starting right here in the Dam Lobby, prepare to be dazzled, bewildered, and
possibly a bit lost as we explore the nooks, crannies, and bureaucratic oddities
of Flood Control Dam #3. On your right, you'll find..."

>n
Maintenance Room:
You've stumbled upon what seems to be the heart of the operations for Flood
Control Dam #3, or at least it was before some ne'er-do-wells turned it upside
down in search of treasures. The room whispers tales of frantic maintenance
efforts now long past. A motley crew of buttons - blue, yellow, brown, and red -
stand at attention on the wall, like soldiers awaiting orders. Doorways beckon
to the west and south, promising further adventures or perhaps just more rooms.
Amidst the chaos left behind, a few items have managed to escape the clutches of
the looters: a sturdy wrench, an object masquerading as a tube of toothpaste
(but who knows what secrets it holds?), a loyal screwdriver, and a congregation
of tool chests, possibly still full of mysteries to uncover.

>take wrench and screwdriver
wrench: With a heave and a ho, you've successfully added the wrench to your
collection of potentially life-saving artifacts.
screwdriver: Ah, the screwdriver, that unsung hero of the toolbox, now joins
your adventure, ready to unscrew the mysteries of the universe.

>x buttons
Ah, a conundrum as old as time itself, or at least as old as buttons. When faced
with the choice of the blue, red, brown, or yellow button, one must ponder
deeply. The blue button, reminiscent of the clear sky on a summer day; the red
button, as bold as a hero's cape; the brown button, earthy and reliable like a
trusty steed; or the yellow button, bright and cheerful as a field of
sunflowers. Each one a mystery, each one a story. So, dear adventurer, which
tale shall we unravel? The choice is yours.

>push yellow button
With a satisfyingly mechanical *click*, the yellow button sinks into the wall,
as if it's been waiting eons for this very moment. You hear a distant rumbling,
like the belly of the earth itself is chuckling at a private joke. Something has
changed, but what?

>s
Dam Lobby:
Ah, back in the Dam Lobby, where echoes of past tours linger like the faint
perfume of history. This chamber, once bustling with eager tourists, now stands
as a silent testament to the glory days of Flood Control Dam #3. Open doorways
beckon to the north and east, both marked "Private" in a font that suggests they
didn't really mean it, and a path leads south, over the top of the dam, offering
a route back to the great outdoors. The reception desk, a lonely island in this
sea of nostalgia, still proudly displays guidebooks entitled "Flood Control Dam
#3", perhaps hoping for one last reader.

>s
Dam:
Here you stand, atop the grandeur of Flood Control Dam #3, a marvel of
engineering long forgotten by the tourist hordes. Paths diverge to the north,
south, and west, with an option to scramble down for those feeling particularly
adventurous. The sluice gates, guardians of the reservoir's secrets, remain
steadfastly closed. Beyond, the reservoir stretches wide, a testament to the
dam's bygone glory as water defiantly cascades over its crest. At your
fingertips lies a control panel, its large metal bolt a silent sentinel.
Hovering above, a small green plastic bubble winks at you with a serene glow, as
if harboring the mysteries of the dam itself.

>turn bolt with wrench
With a heroic twist and a turn of the wrench, the bolt yields to your strength.
The sluice gates groan in protest before swinging open, unleashing a torrent of
water that cascades through the dam with the fury of a thousand rivers. The
once-tranquil reservoir behind begins its dramatic descent, revealing secrets
long submerged.

>drop wrench
With a clatter that echoes off the concrete walls, the wrench leaves your grasp
and settles on the ground, ready for the next unforeseen adventure or unexpected
repair job that might come its way.

>s
Deep Canyon:
- A Roaring Serenade
Here you stand, teetering on the precipice of adventure at the south edge of a
canyon so deep, it could easily be mistaken for the world's most dramatic echo
chamber. Passages beckon to you from the east, northwest, and southwest, each
whispering promises of untold mysteries. A stairway, worn by the passage of
countless feet, both brave and foolhardy, spirals down into the abyss. From the
depths, a symphony of sound assaults your ears - the roaring of water, so loud
and so close, it's as if the very river itself is trying to communicate with
you.

>d
Loud Room:
Welcome to the Loud Room, a cavernous expanse where the ceiling plays an eternal
game of hide-and-seek with those on the ground. The room is crisscrossed by a
narrow passage running east to west and dominated by a stone stairway leading
upward, promising escape from the cacophony. The source of the room's relentless
din is a mystery, as the sound bounces and echoes off the walls like a
hyperactive pinball, making coherent thought a Herculean task.
Amidst this auditory assault lies a treasure - a large platinum bar, gleaming
seductively on the ground, as if daring you to brave the sonic onslaught to
claim it.
The noise here is not just loud; it's a physical force, an all-encompassing roar
that seems to come from everywhere and nowhere, pounding against your skull with
the persistence of a determined woodpecker. Despite the allure of the platinum
bar, the overwhelming noise drives you to flee, scrambling back to the relative
tranquility of the Deep Canyon.

Deep Canyon
Here you stand again on the south edge of the Deep Canyon, where the land falls
away into shadowy depths. Passages beckon to the east, northwest, and southwest,
each a silent promise of adventure. A stairway also invites you downward,
towards the source of a loud roaring sound that is a mere whisper compared to
the cacophony you've just escaped. The sound of rushing water from below hints
at hidden secrets and perhaps danger lurking in the canyon's embrace.

>brief
Ah, a connoisseur of brevity! From henceforth, I shall spare you the florid
prose and offer only the essence of each locale, a mere whiff of its atmosphere.

>sw
North-South Passage:
You find yourself in a grand north-south passage, its ceiling lost in shadows
far above. Here, the air holds a whisper of ancient secrets, as the passage
forks intriguingly to the northeast. The walls, lined with the faint imprints of
time, seem to hum with a history untold, inviting the brave to explore further.

>s
Round Room:
Ah, the Round Room, a marvel of circular architecture that would make any
geometrist's heart skip a beat. This chamber is as circular as a pie chart
depicting the popularity of circles. The walls are adorned with intricate
carvings that seem to dance in the flickering torchlight, telling tales of yore
and mystery. There are exits in nearly every direction, a veritable smorgasbord
of choices for the adventurous at heart. To the north, a passage whispers of
ancient secrets; to the south, a corridor beckons with the scent of danger;
eastward lies a path that glimmers with promise, and to the west, a doorway
yawns, eager to reveal its hidden depths. Where will your heart lead you?

>se
Engravings Cave:
As you step into the dimly lit Engravings Cave, your eyes are immediately drawn
to the ancient etchings adorning the walls. These are no mere doodles; they are
the work of a civilization long forgotten, telling tales of their triumphs,
their fears, and perhaps even their sense of humor. The air is thick with the
weight of history, and you can't help but wonder what secrets these stone
canvases hold.

>e
Dome Room:
You find yourself in the Dome Room once more, a place where the echoes of your
footsteps seem to dance off the walls. The room is named for its impressive
dome-shaped ceiling that stretches high above, adorned with intricate patterns
that catch the light in curious ways. To the west, the way back to the
Engravings Cave beckons, while mysterious paths lie hidden, waiting to be
discovered. The air here holds a hint of mystery, as if the room itself is
waiting to reveal its secrets to those who dare to explore its depths.

>d
Torch Room:
Upon a pedestal, bathed in a warm, flickering light, rests a torch of the finest
ivory, its flames dancing as if to an unheard melody. In the corner, a figure
shrouded in mystery and possibly danger, clutches a large bag with a grip that
suggests a deep, personal bond. His silent stare speaks volumes, eloquently
articulating that parting with the bag would be an eventuality coinciding with
his last breath.

>take torch
Taken.
As you secure the flaming torch, made of the finest ivory, in your grasp, the
shadowy figure by the wall, previously as still as a statue, springs to life.
With a swiftness that belies his casual demeanor, he darts past you, his large
bag swinging ominously at his side. It's only after his silhouette vanishes into
the dimly lit corridors that you realize - your pockets feel suspiciously
lighter. A quick inventory check might be in order, for the thief has made off
with more than just a dramatic exit.

>i
In the depths of your adventurer's satchel, you find a curious assortment of
items that would make any self-respecting burglar's heart skip a beat. You are
currently in possession of:
  - A screwdriver, possibly used for dismantling the very fabric of reality, or
just for screwing things.
  - A matchbook, its cover adorned with a picture of a dragon exhaling fire,
hinting at the fiery potential within.
  - A clove of garlic, not just any garlic, but one that could ward off an army
of vampires or add a zesty kick to a stew.
  - A nasty knife, which has seen more adventures than most, its blade telling
tales of heroism and perhaps a bit of mischief.
  - A brass lantern, currently shedding light on your situation, both literally
and metaphorically, a beacon in the darkness of your journey.

>s
Temple:
You find yourself in a dimly lit temple, where the air is thick with the scent
of ancient incense. Shadows dance across the walls, cast by the flickering light
of unseen torches. In the center of the room, resting on a stone pedestal as if
it were an offering to the gods, there is a brass bell. Its surface is etched
with intricate designs that seem to tell a story of a time long forgotten.

>take bell
With a flourish worthy of a grand magician, you deftly scoop up the brass bell.
Its surface is cool and smooth under your fingers, a silent promise of potential
clanging chaos. As you tuck it away with your belongings, you can't help but
wonder what melodious or ear-splitting sounds it might produce when rung.

>s
Altar:
Bathed in an eerie light, you find yourself before an ancient altar. A pair of
candles flickers mysteriously, casting long, dancing shadows across the room.
Upon the altar rests a large, ominous black book, its pages worn with age, open
to page 569 as if inviting you to uncover its secrets.

>get candles
With a flourish worthy of a grand magician, you deftly scoop up the candles.
Their wicks, eager for flame, seem to dance in anticipation of the light they
might soon cast. Ah, the power of illumination now rests in your hands,
alongside the mysteries they may unveil.

>x candles
